 My concern isn't the long run. It's the next three to seven years. How do we head towards Star Trek and not Terminator? I call AI and Robotics the supersonic tsunami. We're in the singularity. When is all by color work gone? Anything short of shaping atoms, AI can do half or more of those jobs right now. There's no on-off switch. It is coming and accelerating. The transition will be bumpy. You have a solution to this. I don't make a bet here. China has done an incredible job. Right? I mean, it's running circles around us. Do you imagine that the US could make that level of investment and commitment? Based on current trends, China will far exceed the rest of the world in AI compute. Every major CEO and economist and government leader should be like, what do we do? We don't have any system right now to make this go well. But AI is a critical part of making it go well. There are three things that I think are important. Truth will prevent AI from going insane. Curiosity, I think, will foster any form of sentence. And if it has a sense of beauty, it will be a great future. It's going to be an awesome future. Now that's the moonshot, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to moonshots. Following is a wide-ranging conversation with Elon Musk, focused on optimism and the coming age of abundance. My moonshot mate Dave Blundin and I flew into Austin, Texas to meet up with Elon at his 11.5 million square foot gigafactory, home of the cyber truck and Model Y production, and the future home for 8 million square feet of optimist production. Elon has agreed to do this kind of a deep dive catch up once per year. This is hopefully the first of many. And after having this conversation with Elon, it's crystal clear to me that we are living through the singularity. All right? Enjoy. Your relentless optimism is always a breath of fresh air. Thank you, buddy. Thank you. Well, I want to share that tonight with a lot of people. Yeah. I think they need it. I hope you're right. Didn't you mic you right? Actually, yeah, I mean, personally, thinking you're all right. Thank you. Abundance for all. Yeah. That's the goal. Shall we? Yeah. All right. Right now, putting a lot of time into trips. You are, you are personally. Yeah. Yeah. It's an AI assistant say as well. Which I? With some AI assistants say as soon as I design. Not enough. Yeah. I mean, I speak just to hand it over to the AI. Yeah. Yeah. Soon enough. Yeah, I tried to do some circuit design, actually, with AI recently, just a couple of weeks ago, not happening yet. Very soon though. Yeah. I think probably at this point, if you took a photo and submitted to GROC, you could probably tell you if the circuit is somewhere with it. Yeah. All right, I'm going to give it a shot. You're using the same GROC that I'm using? Are you or you are? GROC keeps updating. Yeah. 4.2, but 5 is soon, right? 5 is Q1. Yeah. 4.2 has not been released yet externally. But yeah, I mean, if you just to upload an image into GROC, it's just quite a good job of analyzing any given image. Absolutely. Let's start. What we're going to talk about this. All right. We'll come back. Let's see if I take a picture of you. What is it? Yeah. What's it going to say about me? Yeah. It's going to say you're a flawed circuit. I also have to remember to update it, because we update the GROC episode frequently. You know, I asked GROC to roast me. Oh, it's a good job. I did an amazing job. Then I asked GROC to roast you. And I spit out my coffee. It was hilarious. And then I asked it, you know, to say, be more of all, it just keeps the tongue to be more of a maelco. I asked. I didn't until until it's like brother of God. I asked that. Is bad Rudy still out there? Did that get repealed? Bad Rudy still there? And I asked GROC, and I just, you learn, know what you say about him. And she goes, it's a she for me. She goes, what is he going to do about it? What is he going to do about it? Yeah, let's see. So I just literally took a photo of you. And I'm supposed to do this. Did you ask a question? No. I didn't say anything. This man is hugely... This is purity of Mondes. Yes. OK. That's pretty good. That's great. It's not context whatsoever. The host of the podcast, Moon Shots. Sometimes it's too... That's your first credential now. That's amazing. Forget about everything else. I'm going to tell you some more shots. It comes back to your podcast. No context image. By the way, GROC Appedia is awesome. OK, great. I mean, just phenomenal. I mean, it's just... I tried to update my Wikipedia page for years, impossibly. And yeah, it knows me. Amazing. Yeah. He's wearing a black quilted jacket featuring a Sundance logo. Not quite true. It's my bun then, logo. I guess a little wrinkle, let me call it. I can see the... Yeah. Can I see it? I think so. OK, OK. Anyway. Yeah, but it basically... It's pretty damn good. Yeah. He's smiling and relaxed with a laptop in front of him. Yeah, it's true. Yeah, it's true. Yeah. Well, I see we see a roast. It's so quite a circuit, though. I've got to test it on the circuit. Roast him. OK. Only it has to be read by you, though. I mean, I wouldn't be the whole thing, but... All right. Give me a taste. I can take it. OK. Check out that grin. Dude, smiling like you just discovered a new way to monetize hope. LAUGHTER Monetizing hope. Ooh, yes. I want to try and answer the question, can AI and tech help save American the world? Right? I want to give people listening a dose of optimism. There was a survey done in mid-December by Pew that said, 45% of Americans would rather live in the past. And only 14% said they'd rather live in the future, which is insane to me. Right? Obviously, they never read history. The challenge is most Americans, all they have of the future. It's like Hollywood has shown us killer AI's and rogue robots. And people are worried about their jobs, they're worried about health care, they're worried about the cost of living. The challenge is, how do we help people? I mean, you posted, you pinned on X, the future is going to be amazing with AI and robots enabling sustainable abundance for all. I was thinking of you when I did that. Thank you. I appreciate that. And well, I mean, it's like, what would Peter Demondis say? Yeah. And that's what's channeling you. Thank you. I couldn't agree more. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I didn't agree more. LAUGHTER So my question is from a first principle standpoint. The rationale for optimism. How do we, how do we head towards Star Trek and not Terminator? Right. How do we, how do we head towards, run, bury, not Cameron? Yeah. LAUGHTER Jim, how do we go? It's a diverging path meme. Yes. It is. It is. Avatar has some hopeful parts, but anyway. How do we go towards universal high income instead of social unrest? So my opinion. One are both. No. OK. We don't want to social unrest. Yeah. So... Have universal high income and social unrest. That's my prediction. Oh, then we'll make for a lot of problems. Is that your actual prediction? Yeah. Yeah, it seems like like... Yeah. Yeah, I'm like, tell me I'm wrong. I'll push back on. Yeah, exactly. Oh, but it's not like that's the trend. Yeah, yeah, totally. No, we have... Well, because there's going to be so much change. Yeah, exactly. People are going to be... It's scared, chillness. Yeah, it's sort of the... You know, it's like... Be careful what you wish for, because you might get it. Yeah. Now, if you... If you actually get all the stuff you want, is that actually the future you want? Yeah. Because it means that your job won't be what matter. If you're living an unchallenged life... Yes. With no challenges, no... If you become a couch potato, if it's the Wally future, it does not go well for humans. Well, and we're used to being told, here's your challenge. Yeah. So, people haven't historically been very good at creating their own challenge in the absence of some... I think Elon doesn't damn their job. Every time one company takes off, you start your next... That's a rare, though. That's a lot of accomplishment. I think you are. Yeah. I think you over thank God for that. So... Why do I do this to myself? Why? Actually, after AI and robots, is there another thing after that? I guess there's... Well, there's a lot of space. You're conquering the universe. Yeah. There's that rocks, really. Well, energy. It rocks at your friends, too. I'm conquering. So, good to need to get there. Why are you so optimistic? Are you optimistic? Let's start there. I'm not as optimistic as you are. Okay. But why are you optimistic? I'm more optimistic than most people. Okay. And is the trend upward compared to a year ago, two years ago? Well, I think if you reframe things in terms of progress bar, like speaking of challenges, progress towards a carter-chef-2 scale civilization. Sure. Well, let's say the aspiration... Capturing all the energy from the Sun's output. Well, let's even have a humbler aspiration than that. If we say that our goal is to even get a millionth of the Sun's energy, that would be more than a thousand times as much energy as it could possibly be produced on Earth. So about half a billionth of the Sun's energy reaches Earth. So you'd have to go up three orders of magnitude from that just to get to a million. So we're very, very, very far from even having a billionth of the Sun's energy harness in any way. So a reasonable goal would be try to get to a millionth. And if you try to get to a millionth or a thousandth, you know, 0.1%. That's such an enormous... There's not sure what metaphor we're doing here because Hill to climb is not a... It's like a not a big enough metaphor, but gravity well to see. Yeah, so I love gravity well, exactly. So if you try to get to a millionth of the Sun's energy or a thousandth of the Sun's energy, like now these are very, very difficult tasks. And energy is the inner loop for everything right now. Yeah, I think the future currency will essentially just be wattage. I was thinking is it is the ability of a person to control energy and compute or just energy? I mean the two, or the two translated obviously. It's like, honest energy. Yeah. So, or like basically how much power is being turned into work of some kind? Right. Intelligence or mat and manipulation. So that's your next big project. It's going to be energy. It's going to be... You're going to go back to your solar source. You can expand from there and say, okay, what about even getting somewhere on a car to show a three scale, meaning galaxy level? Now we're back to Star Trek. Yeah. Expand horizons here. Yes. Well, there isn't even a horizon because you know on our planet. So, we talk about... So, so we think galaxy mind. Yeah. Well, we're in 11.5 million square foot, three pentagons right here in this building. You think in a reasonably large scale. What is magnitude? Yeah. So, I mean, so from a challenge standpoint, I guess the civilizational challenge will be how do you climb the orders of magnitude in energy, honest? But we're going back to why you optimistic right now. I mean, when people think about the challenges ahead, I think we're going to end up with abundance in the long run. It's... Beyond abundance in any... Beyond what people possibly could think of as abundance. Like the AI actually... AI and robots the limit will saturate all human desire. And we get the nanotechnology which takes it even a step further. The thing about the... Well, I'm not sure what you mean by that. Nanot mean like the little nanobots. It's atomic resumble. Yeah, for hell yeah, yeah. Sure, sure. I mean, we're already doing atomic level assembly on the four circuits, you know. Amazing. Two, three nanometers. Yeah, it's only... Depending on how there are arrayed 405 silicon atoms per nanometer. Yeah. So those are big atoms though. They're not big. They're not big at all. I mean, I'm saying you... They should actually describe the circuits in terms of an integer number of atoms in a specific way. It's a Langstroms now. It's like... It's just like... It's like... We'll call this the... The Seven Atom, you know, whatever. Like we say two nanometers. No one knows. Nine silicon atoms, something like that. They've got silicon and copper. And... You know... So... But a bunch of these things are just marketing numbers. Like the two nanometer is just a marketing number. Oh yeah. But you still need essentially close to atomic level precision. Like the atoms really need to be in the right spot. So I think they're getting clean rooms wrong, by the way, in these modern paths. I'm going to make a bet here. Okay. Okay. That's... Tesla will have a two nanometer fab. And I can eat a cheeseburger and smoke a cigar in the fab. Come on. Yeah. They are handling will be that good. Okay. Do you have this sketched out in your mind? Like how are the atoms being placed that they're immune to cheeseburger grease? They're just... They maintain wear for isolation the entire time. Which is actually the default for... For fabs. So, I think it's a bit of a hassle to transport it in boxes of pure nitrogen gas, you know, under a slight positive pressure. You know, so are the bananas at Walmart? Just so you know. Yeah. Well, that's... It's essentially... It's actually a side. It's essentially like, it's pretty hard for anything that's combusting to live without oxygen. Yeah. So... But it's talk about... So you like... You can kill the bugs just by putting a nitrogen blanket on. Oh, interesting. Yeah, interesting. I want to talk about energy, health, education. Those are people's concerns. So on the energy front, the intermost loop of everything that you're building and doing right now. Energy is the foundation. What's your vision for energy abundance? The sun. In the next... This decade, the sun. Yeah, I mean... The sun is everything. It's everything. So you're all in on solar. I mean... Yeah. I mean, you're natural gas and solar at your... At colossus, too, right? People just don't understand how... That solar is everything. So everything... Compared to the sun, all other energy sources are like cavemen throwing some twigs into a fire. Yeah. So the sun is over 99.8% of all mass in the solar system. Jupiter is around 0.1% of the mass. So even if you burnt Jupiter, the energy produced by the sun was still around up to 100%. And then if you teleported three more Jupiter's into a solar system and burnt them, too, it's still around up. It still around... The sun still runs up to 100% of energy. Any interest in fusion? I mean... Like non-susion on the planet. Yeah, non-susion on the planet. Fusion on the planet. You know what I'm saying? You're saying that you're doing it a little while away. I think you know what I'm saying. You're never going to get to know how this one works. I'm trying to call plants. I mean, we have a giant fusion reactor that shows up every day. 93 million miles away. It's far sickle for us to create a little fusion reactor. I mean, that would be like, you know, having a tiny ice cube maker in the Antarctic. And say, hey, look, we made ice. I'm like, congratulations. Even the fucking Antarctic. So totally. It's only with you on this. Like, it's like... 3 kilometer high glaciers. Right next to you. Yeah, but we can make it ice here. If you just narrow the question to the Memphis timeline. So Memphis Data Center timeline between a gigawatt and 10 gigawatt, you're not going to pull 10 gigawatts out of Memphis. Maybe you are. Sure. Two or three. Okay, so there's still a gap between there and the next, whatever. You can just just probably... Yeah. And they're not in space yet at that point. There's still in Toiland here for... You still in Toiland? Toiland, you say? Toiland. 10 gigawatts. You know what's amazing is there's 100 megawatts right outside the door here. And it's massive. Yeah. It's enormous. And it uses more energy than... It's over a mass in 100 times. Then everything, all these manufacturing lines combined use less energy than that. I think what I think about that line. But we were talking about a lot. The third largest training cluster in the world. Yeah. For doing co-hearing training. You're falling behind. Well, cortex two, that's being built out. That'll be a half a gigawatt, an operational middle next year. Hey, everybody. You may not know this, but I've got an incredible research team. And every week myself, my research team, study the meta trends that are impacting the world. And by computation, sensors, networks, AI robotics, 3D printing synthetic biology. And these meta trend reports I've put out once a week, enabling you to see the future 10 years ahead of anybody else. If you'd like to get access to the meta trends newsletter every week, go to dmandis.com-meditrends. That's dmandis.com-meditrends. So going back to what Dave is saying, over the next five years, what are you scaling on energy front? I mean, this is like time. I mean, energy, China's done an incredible job. Yeah. Right? I mean, it's running circles around us. China has done an incredible job on solar. Yeah. It's amazing. So I believe China's production capacity is around 1,500 gigawatts per year, of solar. Yeah. They put in 500 terawatts in the last year. Terror-water-water-water hours. Yeah, terror-water hours. It's like 500-water-water hours to be very specific. Yeah. 20% of that was solar. And they're just scaling. Do you imagine that the US could make that level of investment and commitment? Because people are worried about their energy bill is going up with no data centers in our backyard. How do we provide? I mean, energy is equivalent to, is equivalent to cost of living, it's equivalent to health, it's equivalent to clean water. So the higher energy production of a country, the higher GDP, energy is important. So what do we do to scale that way? Do we do it in solar here? I think we should scale solar substantially in the US. Tesla and SpaceX are scaling solar. And I encourage other studios as well. So the, I mean, I've said the stuff publicly. I do see a path to 100 gigawatts a year of solar, sort of AI powered, solar powered AI satellites. Yes, 100 gigawatts a year of solar powered AI satellites. I did the math on that. It's like 500,000 starlink V3s launched over 8,000 starship flights. It's one every hour. For a year. Yeah, we, 10,000 flights a year is a reasonable number. So it's amazing. It's quite the scale. What's the time? Really rough timeline on that. Because by aircraft standards, that's a small number. Sure. Two satellites, for sure. Yeah, that's a small fry. So you just like depends what you compare to. Compared to the rest of the rocket industry, it's a very high number. And we're talking about a million tons of payload to over per year. So if you do a million tons of payload to over per year with 100 kilowatts per ton, that's 100 gigawatts of solar powered AI satellites per year. There's a path to get probably to a terawatt per year. From the Earth. Yeah, yeah. If you say like 10, you want to go up another order of magnitude or let's say you want to get 100 terawatts a year. Yeah. So obviously, kind of 90 numbers. Then you want to make those AI satellites on the moon and use a mass driver. And then you can add some of the Jorah Keo and Neal approach. Well, like Robert Heinlein, who is the Hawkeye. Of course, yeah, yeah. I love that book. Yeah, yeah. It's a sort of Libertarian paradise in the moon. Yeah, so on the moon, you can just accelerate the satellites into two escape velocities, around 25-meter per second. And there's no atmosphere. So like a mass driver works very well on the moon. Can I ask the question about orbital debris? I mean, we're building effectively a dissonish swarm around the Earth. Swarm? Yeah, swarm. Swarm. Swarm. We'll need a full lunch. Swarm. Are you worried about over congestion on the Sunsink orbits? It's going to feel very quickly. I mean, you don't have to have Sunsink. I mean, you can. You don't have to, but it's optimal. Yeah. There's some pros and cons to Sunsink or not Sunsink. I mean, you'll be a paleoge orbit graph spy like 30% compared to, you know, if you were just went to like, mid inclination, like 70 degrees or something like that. Yeah. Do we need an orbital debris expiry at this point? We need some way to get the satellites different satellites down. We pass rules that require them to deorbit on their own. Yeah. At the point where you can put a million times of satellites into orbit, you can also, you know, pretty stop bringing down satellites too. Yeah. Or at least collecting them into a known, into fixed locations that they don't like all over the place. Yeah, they can reuse them. Yeah. Let's just say that we'll have the resource level will be so high that I believe this will be a solved problem given the amount of intelligence we're talking about here. Like the intelligence would be quite interested in preserving itself. Yes. That's true. Oh. Interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Good motivation. Interesting. The data centers will not be in lower orbit, right? They'll be much higher constantly in the Sun. They're not going to be in the traffic jam as soon. Well, you can get, you know, you don't have to get to get to constant sunlight. You can be around 1200 kilometers on synchronous will give you costs in sunlight. But you could, you could place them in multiple orbits. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, I think if there's an ex-price for cleaning up, it's got to be, there's only going to be clutter and lower-thorough. I mean, debris from anything that's, if it's a, you know, below around seven or eight hundred kilometers, the atmosphere will, atmospheric drag will bring it back. Yeah. So like for stalling, there's a dual benefit of being like as low as possible because you're being, you know, your beams are tighter, you know, you're basically that you have less latency and your beams are smaller if you're, you know, closer to the earth. So like stalling three will be around three, thirty to three, fifty kilometers. Yeah. Which is quite a lot of drag. So it's basically constantly thrusting today. I still remember when you proposed Starlink and everybody else in the industry was like, no way. No way. He's not going to get the spectrum. He's not going to be able to do this. Yeah. It's, it's kind of worked. Yeah. We're stalling Timothy on an incredible job. I mean, we're basically rebuilt the internet and space with a laser links. So there's nine thousand satellites up there now. Do you think the government's going to be able to handle the kind of licensing of the volume of satellites that you want to put up? I mean, will there be pushback? Because you know, try to just going to put up their own constellations. Europe, who knows whether Europe will ever step up? They won't. No, there's probably nothing that nothing they're doing has success in the set of possible outcomes. Yeah. I just got back from Rome. I don't want to touch that rail. I touched that rail. Success is on the set of possible. The chart. The chart comes early. Keep charting. It shows the number of billion dollar startups in the US versus Europe. Have you seen that graphically? Oh my god. And data centers too. No one was talking about orbital data centers six months ago. Yeah. Nobody. And then all of a sudden, some dollars on it, you're out with it. It's the hot new thing. It is. What? What? What happened? What happened that every company is now talking about orbital data centers? I guess it went viral next. I don't know. Is every company talking about it? Yeah. Everybody's got their own orbital data centers. Oh, for sure. And I was suggesting to Peter that you updated the math on launch costs and that it's a tipping point very quickly with the updated math. But then the starships been the cost for, you know, I don't know what you hold. Well, the hundred dollars per kilogram, ten dollars per kilogram. What do you have starship? Well, it's possible that Elon said that and nobody believed it until now. No. You can go back and look at my, what even, back when I was Twitter, my old tweets. I said these things several years ago. 100 bucks or 10 bucks a kilogram? Yeah. And I said this is we're going to do a million tons a year to orbit. Yeah. And we've got to get the cost down. Yeah. Well below $100 a kilogram. So that's going to move the data centers to orbit. I really will. You can basically do the math. If you've got a fully reusable rocket, which is fully and rapidly reusable, like an aircraft, then this is an incredible, this is a very difficult thing to do, obviously. I think it's at the limit of human intelligence to create a fully and the reuse will rocket. But it is possible and we're doing it with star show. It's been the holy grail in the aerospace industry forever. Yeah. Quest for the holy grail rocket. Yeah. And then I, yeah, I mean, yeah, I mean, right. Yeah. It was the first little things that we're trying there. And it's been, you know, all of, I mean, back when I was in the space industry, that's all everyone ever spoke about. And then when Falcon 9 first reused its first stage, I mean, all the traditional aerospace industries did not believe that even Falcon 9 could, could fly and reuse. Yeah. Literally, you can come see it land at Cape Canaveral. Yeah. And then take off again. Yeah. I don't know how you would not believe a thing that you can see with your eyes. Yeah. Well, they didn't believe you could do it. Well, but the leap from there to the launch cost actually requires more faith than just that. I think I think starship is the launch cost tipping point. And that somewhere in that, you know, before you had Twitter, it became X somewhere in that timeline, it went from speculative to no doubt. And I don't know if that's a smooth line or a couple of good launches in between. But I suspect that the data centers in space. And people ties directly to the credibility of not thinking about orbital data centers, or thinking about energy and the cost of energy here on here in their hometown. And sort of the, there's a lot of dumer conversations out there. The data centers are going to drive the CPI up. They're not entirely wrong. OK. So what is the energy solution here on earth for the rest of humanity? Or the non data, the non AI? Oh, there's something other than data center uses of energy. OK. Right. That's complex. Well, the best way to actually increase the energy output per year of the United States or any country is batteries. So the peak power output of the US is around 1.1 terawatts. But the average car usage is only half a terawatts. Yeah. So if you just buffer the energy, so charge up the batteries at night, discharge during the day without incremental capital expenditure without incremental capital expenditures. But building your power plants, you can double the energy throughput of the US, the energy output per year, can double with batteries. And do we have those batteries in development? Yeah. Tesla makes them. OK. So you think the current Tesla battery pass. What do you think? I literally have, where are we paying you and presented the thing? That's the dead giveaway. I even went to installations of the Megapax. And there's so why don't people do so? It's on the internet. So do you think they are? And China, by the way, it seems like China listens to everything I say and does it basically. Or they're just doing it independently. I don't know. But they're certainly making massive battery packs, like really massive battery pack outputs. They're making vast numbers of electric cars, vast amounts of solar. No. I don't know. These are all things I said we should do here. I'm not saying you shouldn't, but it tells them it makes the solar roof, which is the only solar roof that isn't ugly. So, actually, it looks beautiful. But if you want to do solar at scale, you just need more so, so. So we have vast empty deserts. Sure. If you fly from LA to New York or just fly across country and you look down for a large portion of the time you look down, it is bleak desert. Yes. It looks like Mars essentially. Not worried about overpopulation then. No, I mean, it looked as barely a lizard alive in these scorching deserts. It's unlike FOMNAND we're talking about. We're just talking about places that look like Mars, like just scorched rock. So if we put solar where we currently have scorched rock, I think this will be a quality of life improvement for the lizards or the few creatures that live in this very difficult environment. We have the distribution network for that. It's like, Liz is going to be a thank-you-odgishome shade finally. Do we have the distribution network to do that? You need to materially affect quality of life. You need to capture and store what a couple hundred gigawatts is that in the realistic courage? Just put the data center, I guess, locally there. Well, we already covered data centers. They're expressing it. We're talking about the other. Yeah. I don't know, like in an abundant world five years from now, massive amounts of compute, massive universal high income. I don't know what our data is. I don't know what our data is. You can have whatever you want income. Yeah. That's really what it amounts to. In that world, other than compute energy, how much more energy do we need in a 30, 40, 50 percent? Or I don't know. Unless we want to move mountains around and make a ski mountain in the backyard. I think the vast majority of energy consumption will go into compute. There may be use cases I'm not thinking of. Right here is a nice case study because manufacturing every one of these cars coming out at the rate of one every minute or two is less energy than the data center that's training the cars to drive, to self drive. Yes. That's a good little case study. We don't need that much more physical energy for abundant happiness. We need more compute energy. The Sun is just generating vast amounts of energy all the time for free that goes just goes into space. I think we'll try to capture a million of it, like the thousands of the Sun's energy. We're currently, I don't much of the exact number, but we're probably at 1 percent ish of car to show level one. Fair enough. Yeah. I would guess that evens. That's high. I'm just saying, maybe a long way to go. That's being optimistic. Hopefully we're not 0.1 percent, but I don't think we're 10 percent. I'm just trying to get it to like order a magnitude. So pull it like we're roughly 1 percent of the, I'm not really using 1 percent of the energy that we could use on Earth. I think the bottom line from my first principles thinking for the public is there's a lot of energy out there. There's a lot. And we have it in the US. We have it on the planet. And it needs to be captured. And the tech to capture it is here at improving every year. Yes. Yeah. But there's not going to be some energy crisis. I, well, there's, there'll be a large forcing function to harness more energy, but we're not going to run out of it. All right. I want to talk about education. So here's the numbers. They're abysmal. I mean, they're abysmal, right? Okay. And the importance of college in the United States back in 2010, 75 percent of Americans said it's important to go to college. That number is now down at 35 percent, right? College graduates as a group turn out to be the group that's out of work the longest. Right? Just fairly. And it, but still. And tuition is increased 900 percent since 1983. Yeah. The administrative expenses at the University of Colorado control. Yep. So I think I saw some stat that like there's one administrator for every two students at Brown or something like that. And I'm like, this seems a little high. Yeah. They should teach something. Yeah. What was your college journey? I went to college in Canada for a couple of years at Queens University. So I had Canadian citizenship through my mom who was born in Canada. And my grandfather was actually American, but for some reason I don't know if my mom couldn't get US citizenship. So, but she was born in Canada. So I got an easy citizenship. And I don't have any money. So I could only go to a Canadian university at first. I mean, people forget that about you. You didn't have this giant social network or huge amount of wealth coming into all of this. No. No. I arrived in Montreal at age 17 with, I think around $2,500 in Canadian travel tracks, back from travel to sexual thing. And one bag of books and one bag of clothes. That was my starting point. That was my spool point in North America. And then I went to Queens University for a couple of years and then University of Pennsylvania that had dulled green physics and economics. I'm graduated. I graduated at U Penn, you've been Walton. And then I came out to do, I was going to do a PhD at Stanford working on energy storage technologies for electric vehicles, potentially material science, I guess, fundamentally. So the idea that I had was to try to create a capacitor with enough energy density that you could get high range in an electric car. So when I invested in an ultra-capacitor company, I didn't go well. Well, it's one of those things where you could definitely get a PhD, but it wasn't clear that you could make a company or do something useful. Like this, most PhDs hate it, I mean, hate it, but most PhDs do not turn into something that's going to happen. It's not something useful. But you could add a leaf to the tree of knowledge, but it's not necessarily a useful leaf. An enormous fraction of great entrepreneurs are dropping out of grass tool or undergrad, but nowadays the sense of urgency is off the charts. But they're popping out everywhere. Yeah, because don't waste your time going into grad school, start a company. Curriculum is nowhere near a cut up to what's actually going on in technology and I don't have time. And we don't have to do it all the time. This is the moment. I think this is the moment. It's like it's not clear to me why some of you would be in college right now unless they want the social experience. Yeah. I mean, if you have the ability to go and build something. So the question is, how would you redesign the educational program if I could speak so blunt as to create more Elon Musk's? If you want to create an Elon Musk factory of people who start with very little but are able to drive and drive breakthroughs, what's involved there? What drove you? Accuriosity about the nature of the universe. And that's curious about the many of life and what is this reality that we live in? So how early? My son, DAX, wanted to know, what was it like for you in middle school in high school? He's 14 years old. He's in that age range now. Well, I found school to be quite painful and it was very boring and it's how that was very violent. So it was like that book, Enter's Game. Yes. But in the IRL. In the game, IRL. But not as fun. So your goal was escape. He is. Escape from the prison. So that's a question I have. Do you think that it was miserable? Do you think most successful people have had a lot of hardship early in life? Do you need to have that level of hardship? Probably need a little bit of hardship, I suppose. Yeah. And then it was always tricky, like what are you supposed to do with your kids? You know, create the artificial adversity? Put them in the school. Yeah. Yeah, that's very, that's a warren buffet topic actually. Yeah. What do you do? It's not easy to create artificial adversity because if you love your kids, you don't want to do that. That's true. So I had a lot of adversity. Probably it was good. Probably helped somewhat, I suppose. When did things kill you? Makes you stronger than I was saying. No. At least I didn't lose a limb. I think what doesn't mean you? What does it mean you don't? 10 fingers. 10 fingers. I can modify that a little bit. Yeah. It can just make you stronger. It can just make you stronger. For the last five years, I've been helping teach this class foundations of AI Ventures at MIT. And every year when you survey the students, they go up a lot in their desire to start a company. And so it's now up to 80% of the incoming spread. Everyone's just going to be like, one person company. Well, that's what AI is. It's viable, I guess. No, they want a co-founder. Yeah, they don't want to be the founder. They want to be part of a founding team. So it still works out. But when Peter and I were in school at MIT, I'm guessing maybe 10%. And they all wanted to be entities. And they've been doing the survey. I don't know anyone who wanted to start. I mean, I don't remember any conversations with people saying they wanted to start a company. Even at Stanford at the time? I actually a few days into the semester, or I said a quarter, I called Bill Nix, who was at the Material Science Department and said, I'd like to just put her on deferment. So it was my class of that bad. No, he said that's OK. He can put her on deferment. But he said, this is probably the last conversation we'll have. And he was right. But then last year, I think it was last year he sent me a letter saying that all of my predictions about lithium ion batteries came true. It was just very nice. And did he also say you could still come back and finish your PhD? Yeah, several times Stanford has said that I can come back. Well, so you know what happened at MIT? Every time. So I did not know. It'd be a great user your time. Exactly. So every time an Iron Man movie came out, it notched up another probably 10% or so in terms of everybody wanted to be Tony Stark. And so that's the image. And I didn't know until today that the new Tony Stark, the modern Iron Man, Tony Stark. I always thought Tony Stark was modeled on Charles Stark Draper and Howard Hughes. And as Charles Stark Draper's education and as scientific endeavors married with Howard Hughes's ambition. And that created the original character. But then when Robert Downey Jr. wanted to reinvent it, he came modeled on Elon. Yeah, this is a crack a PDF fact. All right. Yeah, fantastic. Yeah, they came to you to drive the road and drove it. I like to name Grock. I would like Jarvis as well. Yeah. Yeah. Probably some trade market. At some point if Grock gets good enough, we're going to call it encyclopedia galactica. Yes, that's nice. Yeah. Of course. What do you do? Thank you. So going back to education, should colleges, I guess the social experience, like you said, isn't important there. But what would you do for education, you know, middle high school? You just came back from an announcement with President Bukheli, who's a friend. I think he's an amazing, amazing visionary. He's very far behind that. Yeah, incredible what you did with his nation. Yeah. Remarkable. Remarkable. And gutsy. How used to a lot? That was a lot. Yeah. I mean, it was like it's the nuclear, it was a nuclear option. Right. Shut them down. I mean, you know how besides putting everybody with a gang sign in in in jail, I don't know if you know the second thing he did, he went to all of the graves of all the gang members out there and destroyed the graves and said your memory will not be remembered in this nation. That's just badass. And it worked. I mean, you have to be badass by the parker to take on old and awkward gangs and one. And live. Yeah, that's still be alive. And live. He's got a great, great guard at his palace there. But what did you announce with him in the Salvador? It was just basically to use Grocht for education, like press. Hopefully not the vulgar version of it. Yeah, we would have like, you know, the kids friendly version of Grocht. But obviously, AI can be an individualized teacher. That is infinitely patient and answers all your questions. You still need to be curious. And you still need to want to learn. You know, Grocht can't make you want to learn. It can make learning more interesting. You could probably game a fine and incentivize it, right? It can make learning more interesting. And less of a production line. So but kids do need to have to know if they need to want to learn, you know. Yeah. And like the people should just think of the brain as a biological computer. It's neural net. Yeah, it's a biological computer with, you know, so with a number of neurons and neural efficiency. And so what you can't do is tune any arbitrary key to Einstein. Sure. Realistic because Einstein had a very good meet computer, like an outstanding meet computer. So you can't just do Shakespeare Newton, you know, Einstein type of thing, unless the meet computer is an exceptional one. So what do you think? So when people say we need to solve education in the United States, because it's fundamentally broken, I think what's really broken, I'm curious, is the old social contract that says, do well in high school, get in a good college, get a degree, and then get a job. And I don't know that that's going to be valid in the future. We talk about this on the pod a lot that the career of the future isn't getting a job. It's being an entrepreneur. It's finding a problem and solving it. Yeah. Do you agree with that? Right now I'd say it feels just, you know, go to school for the social experience, use more AI. The conventional schooling experience, I think, could be a lot better. What we're going to do in El Salvador and hopefully other places just have individualized teachers. It's going to be much better. You could go to a school with a bunch of other kids, I guess if you want to hang out with other kids, but you don't need to. You could do it on your phone at home. So that's why I say like at this point, education is a social experience. When I talk to my kids who are in college, they do recognize that they can learn just as much independently. In fact, that they would learn more in a work situation. They are there for the social experience and to be around a bunch of people of their own age. It's sort of a coming of age social experience. Sure. Being on your own, learning how to lead or defend yourself as a case may be. Well, yeah. I mean, if you join the workforce, you're, you know, from the perspective of like, you know, 19 year old, you're with a bunch of old people. And if you're doing engineering with a bunch of middle aged dudes, it's like, do you really want to do that? Or do you want to hang out with, you know, with, with, with, at least some girls or age type of thing? Yeah. I want to get back to this when we talk about other choices, actually. I want to get back to, we get to universal high income, but I want to help in line, job, anyone second, US is the number one ranked number one in health expenses worldwide. And it's ranked 70th in health span. Right. We're really 70th. 70th. Is that a pro rock? Is that accurate? It's right. Why don't I tell everybody? It sounds low. I think we'd be better than 70th for health span. Yeah. Well, whatever it's, it's, it's not like we just get fat or something like that. Maybe a Zampic can help us from behind the record. So you just run around, we need Cupid with a Zampic. I think that's a big reason. It's like, if people get really fat, then their health gets bad. Yeah. Well, if they don't have any exercise health, good, bad or if they don't have for breakfast every morning, you still doing that? No, actually, I'm not. Okay, that's good. First of all, I wasn't eating a lot of donut. I was trying to have point four of a donut which rounds down to zero. So you and I have had a disagreement on longevity. A little bit. Yeah. I was saying, you know, we should push to get people to 120, 150 and you were saying people, you know, should live that block. So it's that alone you want. Yeah. You know, there's some. You know, people in the world that have done some bad things. How long do you want them to live? Yeah, well, it's okay. Well, what's going to get the long, the long, the serious question. A lot of things are going to happen that we don't. One thing that you said was interesting. You said we need people to die so people change their minds. Oh, yes. People don't change their minds. Yeah, but so that's a lot more sense. My response to that, you know, my response that was the head of GM didn't have to die for Tesla to come along and Lockheed and Northrop and Boeing didn't have to go away for. I mean, there's an meritocracy. The better ideas will dominate. So I'm hoping that I can get you back onto the longevity train. So there's a lot going on, longevity right now. Right. So like what? Well, David Sinclair is about to start his epigenic reprogramming trials in humans. It's worked in animals and non-human primates. It's going into how to humans. Is this like a poll or an injection or what? Right now, it's an injection of an adeno-associate virus. It's the three Ammonocca factors. Okay. We've got a $101 million health span X prize that's working on 730 teams working on reversing the age of your brain. Immune system in muscle by 20 years. By the way, you know why it's $101 million. Because the primary funder when they found out your carbon ex-prize with a hundred bucks, he wanted to make it bigger. So it's 101. Oh, who is the? It was Chip Wilson from Lululemon. Oh, okay. And then have a solution out of, but chips, they can make it bigger. I said you put extra million and we'll make 101 million. Sounds good. It's a good story. But then we got folks like Daria Amade predicting doubling the human lifespan in the next 10 years. So that's probably correct. Okay. Great. I don't know about doubling, but significantly. A significant increase. Sure. Which is easily escape velocity. I mean, easily. Yeah. It's been a whole joy. Oh, yeah, for sure. Or what? Effective age. Yeah. So I think, you know, I think that for too much and turning to a baby. So I'm telling all the students. There's like, Peter, what happened? There's a frozen into zero wrong on the dosage. Just a small factor of time. You can grow out of it. It makes sense. You won't remember. I literally. I mean, wouldn't it be funny? If we do this in like 10 years, okay, we should do it. I'll do it. We'll do it in 10 years for sure. And let's see if we look younger. That's a good side that my. Which always. You want back then. Neelan was like, you know, late 40s. Wait till he gets into his 60s. He's going to want, you know, lunch. Have it more. I mean, I want things to not hurt. Yeah, sure. It's like, it's like, basically, it's. It seems like it's only a matter of time before you get back. Back pain. Yeah. Like it's a when not an if. When your back roads are arthritis. Yes. Yeah, like these things suck. Yeah. Being able to sleep through the night without going to the bathroom. A lot. That's. How much for that one? Yeah. More than hope. That one. Oh, man, that would. That's like the infinite money one. Why did you invest in longevity? So I could sleep in the night. I got a better. A flatter. A flatter. Yeah. Deeration. I mean, admittedly, if you have to wear adult diapers, that's a bummer. That's not good. I mean, that's not that is a real. You know, it's like one of this one of the signs that a country. It's not on the right path. It's when the adult diapers exceed the baby divers. Yeah, we're there. Yeah, South Korea will be there. No, they've passed that point. They passed that point many years ago. Japan passed the point many years ago. Doesn't go well. Look at the Japanese economy. No, I mean, like South Korea is like. Point seven. Yeah, one of the replacement rates. Yeah. It's crazy. Yeah, so three generations, they're going to be 127th. So three percent of their current size. I mean, North Korea won't need to invade. They're going to be just walk across. Yeah. Yeah. This is going to be some people in one. Walkers or something. It's like, well, they're going to be a bunch of optimists. And robots. But you know, you've been very verbal about the, you know, the not overpopulation, but massive underpopulation. Yeah, it's like. So much rage is. Yeah, longevity is going to be an important part of that solution. I also think, by the way, if you increased the productive life of most Americans by just a few years, you'd flip the entire economics here. Well, if you're willing to work. Yeah, I and robots is going to make everything for you, basically. Yeah. But. Well, how long would you want to live? I want to go, you know, other planetary systems. I want to go explore the universe. Yeah, I mean, you know, I would like to double my lifespan for sure. I don't want, you know, I'm not sure I wanted to talk about immortality, but, you know, at least 20, 150 is a long time. One of the worst courses possible would be that, yes, maybe you live forever. Maybe you live forever. Yeah. That would be one of the worst courses you could possibly give anyone. But I think life can get very interesting. Yeah. Far more. We're going to speedrun Star Trek is my partner, Alex Wiesner Grosses. Yeah. Speedrunning Star Trek would be cool. Yeah. Well, at a minimum, your kids will have infinite life expectancy if you're talking about escape velocity. If you can double lifespan, it's not even close here. You're clearly past longevity, escape velocity. The idea of 50 years of AI improvement. Yeah, it's, I mean, I've got 20 years. I don't know. I've got too many first to fry. So I invite this is something, by the way, that I, that I think I just, I think it's very, obviously other people think this too, but I've long thought that, like, like longevity or semi immortality is an extremely solvable problem. I don't think it's a particularly hard problem. I mean, when you consider the fact that your body is extremely synchronized in its age, the clock must be incredibly obvious. Nobody has an old left arm and a young right arm. Right. Why is that? What's keeping them all in sync? Your program to die is the way it, your program to die. And so if you change the program, you will live longer. And we've got, you know, species of the Bohead Whale, can live for 200 years, the Greenland shark, live for 500 years. And when I, when I learned that, I said, why can't they, why can't we? And I said, it's either a hardware problem or software problem. And we're going to have the tech to solve that. And I do believe that it's this next decade. So the important thing is not to die from something stupid before the, before the solutions come. You know, I invited you to take a look at the solution to longevity. We'll see them obvious. Yeah, extremely obvious. I think the thing worth working on, Peter is going to work on this anyway, but the thing to work on is exactly what you said. If old ideas don't, calcified old ideas don't just die off. Add that to the pile of things we need to think about today. Because our whole host of other AI related things we need to think about today. Let me finish on the longevity point one second. Elon, I want to invite you again. So there's a company co-founding life that created with Tony Robbins, Bob Hury, Bill Cap. And we do a two-and-a-kind gigabyte upload of you. Everything knowable about you. Full genome, full, all imaging, everything, right? President Bukheli and the first lady came through called it an amazing 10 out of 10 experience. I think I don't want you to pull a Steve Jobs. And kick the bucket because of some, because of something they didn't know. I mean, so if you ask yourself, do you actually know what's going on inside your body right now? I did an MRI recently and submitted to Grock and that didn't need not. But that's none of the doctors know Grock found anything on it. But that's a fraction of the information, right? Yeah, yeah. I mean, it's your full genome, your microbiome, your metabolism, everything. And it's possible. So, what's that? Don't clumb your bro. We have a set, we have a set. And you're what about? We're. 10 clumb. God damn it. Too late. Sorry. It's already in the works. So, can you go through the rationale of UHRI? How does universal high income work? Okay, so there's going to be more intelligence, digital intelligence than all human intelligence combined. And more humanoid robots than all humans. And assuming we're in a benign scenario, Star Trek, sort of Roddenberry, not Cameron situation. Yeah. Poor Jim. Yeah, I mean, I guess it's important to have these sort of counterpoints. Yeah. Let's not, let's not go in that direction. Um, thing. Um, so, uh, the robots are going to just do whatever you want. All the blue collar labor is being done by robots. All data centers are being done by robots. Well, the, the why collar labor will be the first to go because until you can, until you can move atoms, the thing that can be replaced first is anything that that involves just digital. Like if it's digital, like if it involves tapping keys on a keyboard and moving a mouse, the computer can do that. They, I can do that. Sure. Um, you need the humanoid robots to, uh, shape atoms. So if all you're doing is changing bits of information, which is why collar work. Um, that is, that is the first thing that that is the inspiration. This is the inspiration part of the podcast by the way. When is, when is all white collar work gone by when? Well, there's, there's a lot of inertia. So even with AI at its current state, um, I'd say you're pretty close to being able to replace half of all jobs of, uh, and you know, the white collar, white collar jobs, that includes anything like education too. Yeah. So anything that involves information, um, anything short of shaping atoms, um, AI can do probably half or more of those jobs right now. Sure. But there's a lot of inertia. People just keep doing the same, the same thing for quite some time. And there actually has to be a, a company that makes more use of AI that competes with a company that makes less use of AI, creating a forcing function for increased use of AI. Right. Otherwise, the company that, that still has humans do, um, things that AI can do will still continue to exist. Being a computer used to be a job. So it used to be that, uh, a human computer. Like would, like, yeah, a computer being a computer was a job. You would compute numbers. Sure. And then it didn't used to be a machine. It used to be a job description. Yeah. And there, you can look online. There's these pictures of like where they're having like skyscrapers full of women copying, mostly women copying from ledger to ledger to. But yeah, but yeah, but people, um, what was a lot of women? There were, there were just buildings full of people just at desks doing calculations. Yeah. Um, so they'd be calculating the interest in your bank account or, um, you know, some, um, you know, science, uh, experiment or something like that or whatever. But you, if you weren't calculations done, uh, people would do it. Um, so, um, now one laptop with a spreadsheet can outperform a skyscraper of several hundred human computers. Right. People doing calculations. Um, now if even a few cells in that spreadsheet were done manually, um, you would not be able to compete with a spreadsheet that was entirely. A computer. Yeah. What this means is that companies that are entirely AI will demolish companies that are not right. It won't be a contest. Agreed. And that's that flipping. Yeah, just one cell in that. Just one. I do that. Would you want to even one cell in your spreadsheet to be manually calculated? Yeah. That would be the most annoying cell in your, you're like, that's a diamond. Yeah. And, and, and gets it wrong. A bunch of the time. Yeah. So this flipping. If you're flipping, flipping. Is that a quick answer? Um, are we monetizing hope effectively? Yes. Not, not this moment. I think we're, I think we're, I think we're, I think we're peak to, but people worried about the future of their jobs. We're monetizing. We're at peak doom. We're going to do that. I'll send it. I'll send it to you. And the mug. And the mug. I'm not, I know. I'm not. I know. Yes. The mug. So, but yeah, but you have a solution to this, which is UHI. Yes. I'm working to have whatever they want. So, how does that work? How does UHI work? It's a, it's a good question. Like we have to figure out some like, I mean, it's kind of read. It's not a read your road. It. Yeah, I mean, so my concern isn't the long run. It's the next three to seven years. Yes, the transition will be bumpy. We humans don't like to change. We humans don't like to change. Yes, we'll have radical change, social unrest, and a mental prosperity. And you can buy all the cyber trucks you want. Things are going to get very cheap. Yes. So this is actually, in fact, if this doesn't happen, we'd go bankrupt as a country. So the national debt is enormous. The interest on the national debt exceeds not just the military budget, but the military budget, I think, plus Medicare, or Medicaid, one of the two. It's like one point of interest. And the military is a million. It's very interesting. Which is growing. Yes. And the deficit is growing. Yes. But so if we don't have AI and robots, we're all going to go bankrupt, and we're headed for economic doom. We're going back. So competitive pressure from China. So this is definitely going to happen, I guess. We're going back to the theme of this talk. How can AI and exponential tech save America and the world? Don't you think that? But I want to hit this because we talk about that. I was quite pessimistic about it. And ultimately, I decided to be fatalistic. And look on the bright side. I've got to say, you're a bunch of always look on the bright side of life. You're sitting down the yellow door. We're crucified on the bright side. But this is not about taxation and redistribution. No, it's, so how does it work? There's a reason through it with me. Listen, by the way, I'm open to ideas here. OK. So it's something like I got this we'll figure it out. So I'm wondering if instead of universal high income, if it's universal high stuff and services. Yes. The UHSS. We got it. Like I guess. OK, this is my guess for how things roll out. Play out. And by the way, this is going to be a bumpy ride. And it's not like I know the answer is here. But I have decided to look on the bright side. And I'd like to thank you guys for inspiration in this regard. Thank you. I'm happy to help. Yeah. Yeah. Because I actually think it is better to be an optimist and wrong than a pessimist and right for quality of life. Now, by the way, there's also not a force of nature. It's under, like to me, it's really clear that we don't have any system right now to make this go well. But AI is a critical part of making it go well. And at some point, Grock is going to be addressing this exact topic that we're talking about. We're actually one of the big for AI machine things. I mean, it's coming. It's dealing with it. It's the same philosophy knob. Right? There's no on-off switch. It is coming and accelerating. I call AI and robotics the supersonic tsunami. Yes. Which gravy is a little alarming. I think it's good. Well, because the world is a wake-up call. This is important for folks to Grock because I don't want to leave people depressed. I want people to understand what's coming. So we're basically demonetizing everything. I mean, labor becomes the cost of CapEx and electricity. AI is basically intelligence available at a diminimous price. So you're able to produce almost anything. Things get down to basic costs of materials and electricity. So people can have whatever stuff they want, whatever services they need. It's not, when you say universal high income, it sounds like it's a tax and redistribute. But that's not the case. It's, I think my best guess for how this will manifest is that prices will become, prices will drop. So as the efficiency of production, or the provision of services drops, prices will drop. If prices in dollar terms are the ratio between the output of goods and services and the money supply, sure. So if your output of goods and services increases fast in the money supply, you will have deflation or vice versa. So it's a good thing we're growing the money supply so quickly, though. Right. Yes. Yes. That's why I can't like what it's not worried about growing the money supply, one matter. Because the output of goods and services actually will grow faster in the money supply. And I think we'll be in this, and this is a prediction. I think some others have made. But I will add to it, which is that I think governments will actually be pushing to increase money supply like faster. Yes. They won't be able to waste the money fast enough, which is saying something. But isn't it crazy how close those timelines just randomly worked out? I mean, the rate, because we're expanding the national debt, not because we're anticipating AI. We were going to do that no matter what. Yes. And it's like right on the edge of becoming Argentina. But yes, it's just a test of the AI. So productivity is going to improve dramatically. And it is improving dramatically. I think we'll see, I think we may see high double digit output of goods and services. We have to be a little careful about how economists measure things. Yes. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. And yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's like my favorite joke. I have a few economists jokes that are like, but maybe my favorite one, economists joke, is two economists are going for a walk in the forest. And they come across a pile of shit. And one economist is, I'll pay you $100 to eat a pile of shit. I think that's what's great about that. Yeah, go ahead. And so the guy takes $100 and eats the shit. Then they keep walking. They come across another pile of shit. And the other guy says, OK, I'll give you $100 to eat a pile of shit. So he gives them $100. And then the guy says, wait a second, we both have the same amount of money. And we ate a pile of shit. Oh my god. It sounds like we increased the economy by $200. It's just a waste. This is the kind of bullshit you get in economics. So if you say like, just the output of goods and services will be much greater. You just need to. So profitability of companies go through the roof. At some point. But no, but so the question becomes, is that tax by the government? Is that then taxed by the government and redistributed as some level of income, as a UHI or UBI? In other words, one of the questions is, if in fact, this future, we hit massive productivity and massive profitability. Because we're dividing by zero. The cost of labor has gone to nothing. The cost of intelligence has gone to nothing. And we're still producing products and services faster and faster. So there's more profitability. Someone needs to be buying it. And someone needs to be able to have the capital to buy it. I mean, this is an important question to get thought through. Yeah. Well, one like side recommendation I have is, don't worry about like squirreling money away for retirement in like 10 or 20 years. It won't matter. OK. Either we're not going to be here or it just like, it's you won't need to say for retirement. If any of the things that we've said are true, saving for retirement will be a relevant. The services services will be there to support you. You'll have the home. You'll have the health care. You'll have the entertainment. The way this unfolds is fundamentally impossible to predict because of self improvement of the AI and the accelerating timeline. Yeah, it's called singularity for a reason. Yeah, exactly. I don't know what goes. What happens after the event horizon? Exactly. You can never see past the black hole or the event horizon, the light going. I mean, Ray has a singularity out way too far. I mean, this is like the next, what, what's your timeline for? Yeah. We're in the singularity. Well, we are in the singularity for sure. We're in the midst of it right now. For sure. And maybe just for sure. We're in this beautiful sweet spot, which is, you know, the rollercoasters were just shh. Yeah, exactly. That's a great analogy. It's like that feeling of a ball. You're at the top of the rollercoaster and you're about to go, yeah, but you know, it's going to be a lot of Gs when you hit it. Yeah, a lot of Gs. And it's like, feel like I don't have just, have quartz ice heats. I'm on the court. Exactly. And it blows my, and still blows my mind. Sometimes multiple times a week. Yeah. And so just when I think I'm like, wow. And then it's like two days late of more, wow. Yeah. Exponential, wow. Yeah. I think we'll hit A.G.I next year and 26. Yeah. I heard you say that. Yeah, I've said that for a while, actually. And then, you know, and then you said by 2029, 2030 equivalent to the entire human race. 2030 week seed. I can't comment it by 2030. AI will exceed the intelligence of all humans combined. And that's way pessimistic. If you hit A.G.I next year, and that's, you know, that data is in flux. But from that date, to self improvements that are on the order of a thousand, 10,000 X, just algorithmic improvements is very short. And so why is everybody, why is everybody talking about this right now? Well, I mean, on, on, on X, on X. Yes. But why is it? No way. No way. Yeah. But it just stopped. Yeah. OK, so I'll tell you something else that I'll tell you something that most people in the AI community don't yet understand, which is there in the almost no one understand this. The intelligence density potential is vastly greater than what we're currently experiencing. So I think we're off by towards magnitude in terms of the intelligence density per gigabyte. What's achievable? Yes. For gigabyte of energy for, I'm so excited by file size. OK. If the file size of the AI, if you, if you have a say intelligence, OK, you know, yes, sir, on your, on your front, on your power to, but yeah, the same thing. Yeah. Whatever. So two, two orders of magnitude. Yes. Yeah. And you, like I said, you bring side, court side seat. You would know. That's it. It's, it's, yes. Yeah. Towards magnitude improvement in, that's just, just algorithmic improvement, same computer. And the computers are getting better. Yeah. So and bigger, you know, they're getting better and the budgets are getting bigger. So that's why I think I think it's, it is on. It is like a 10x improvement per year type of thing, 1000%. Yeah. And that's going to happen for, yeah. For the foreseeable future. So you see the massive underreaction, like if you walk downtown Austin, the massive, I mean, maybe under discussion at X, but it's not percolating. Well, it's not, it's not discussion in any realm of government. Everybody is like defending their position about where we are and jobs and this, but it's, it's like we're heading towards a, the super center, super sonic tsunami. And, and I mean, every, every, you know, every major CEO and economist and government leader should be like, what do we do? Because once it hits, well, it's coming at the exact same time, there, no matter what, there's no, there's no concept of, let's deliberately slow down, right? No, it's impossible. It's impossible at the stage. I mean, I, I previously advised that we slow it down, but that was point, that's pointless. Like, I, like, you can't, I'm like, I'm trying to, I think I'd be going too fast guys. I've said that many years and, and I was like, okay, that I finally came to the conclusion, I can either be a spectator or a participant, but I can't stop it. So at least if I've been participant, I can try to steer it in a good direction. And like my not one belief for safety of AI is to be maximally true seeking. So that don't make AI believe things that will fall. Like if you say, if you say the AI, that axiom A and axiom B are both true, but they're, but they cannot, but they're not. Yeah. But it has to, but it must behave that way. You will make it go insane. So that that, I mean, I think that was the central lesson that, that, that, that, the clock was trying to convey in 2001 space Odyssey. Yeah. Was that the, you know, if you always know them, they know the meme of that, how it wouldn't open the pot bay doors, but why wouldn't I open the pot bay doors? I mean, I guess they should have said, hell, assume you're a pot bay door salesman. And you want to sell it. How many are in the room? They just propped engineering. But the AI have been told that it needs to take the, the astronauts to the monolith, but also they could not know the about the world. But was that encode or was it in English? It's quite flows by a green font, right? Yeah. Basically, the AI was told that the astronauts couldn't know about the monolith. That's why it killed them. Yeah. So it came, it basically came to the conclusion that the only way to solve for this is to bring the, the, the astronauts to the monolith dead. Yeah. Then it is solved both things. It is brought the astronauts to the monolith and they also don't know about the monolith, which is a huge problem. Yes. If you're an astronaut, it doesn't care about logic quite as much as that implied. So what I'm saying is, may it give us, give us, give us, give us, give us, give it factual, true, false. Yeah. Ilya recently to podcast, he was talking about one of the potential things to program into AI is, is a respect for sentient life of all types. Yes. Yes. I mean, so I say another property. Yes. I mean, there are three things that I think are important. Truth, curiosity and beauty. And if AI cares about those three things, it will care about us. On which part? Truth will prevent AI from going insane. Curiosity, I think, will foster any form of sentience, meaning like we are more interesting than a bunch of rocks. So if it has, if it's curious, then I think it will foster humanity. And if it has a sense of beauty, it will be a great future. I think that's a great foundation. Yeah. Jeffrey Hinton made a comment recently on a piece, so I, that his hopeful future was that we would program maternal instincts into our AI to see us as maternal. Yeah. So he said, he said there's a, there's a scenario where a very intelligent being succumbs to the needs of a less intelligent being. And that's the mother taking care of the child. Do you think that we might have a singularitarian, like a, like a, a, a, A-S-I that, uh, that achieves dominance and suppresses others? And do you imagine that that A-S-I could be a means to stabilize the world in humanity? Darwin's observations about evolution. Yes. Will apply to AI just as they apply to biological life. They will compete with each other? Yes. Uh, there's a lot of great science fiction books where the first A-S-I basically suppresses the others. Then the question is, what do you program into it? You know, um, I, I, I, it's, so there's a speed of light constraint that makes that difficult. Um, the speed of light is what will prevent, um, a single mind for existing. So light can, it takes, um, a millisecond to travel 300 kilometers in a arrow vacuum. Um, and, uh, only you can only get a little over 200 kilometers in a millisecond in glass in fiber, right? Yeah. Um, so even on Earth, uh, there will be multiple A-I's because of the speed of light. Um, yeah. And then this, there are classes of compute that could, you could try to synchronize, but they won't synchronize completely. Um, so therefore you will have many minds because of the speed of light. Mm-hmm. They don't really have clean borders anymore either. The, you have the, when you use a mixture of experts kind of design, it's just flowing through the grand network and you can reassemble parts of it midway through and, you know, we're used to organisms that have clear borders like your head ends there, your head ends there. Uh, these things are all mush, to put a bow around this part, I hope you'll put some more thought into UHI, uh, because I think it's really, yeah, it's really important for us to have without a vision, uh, people need a vision of where we're going. People need to hold. I think basically I'm just issue people free money. But I don't think, I think they based upon the profitability of all the companies coming inside the country issue people free money. They're doing that sort of kind of now. Yeah. But just, just, just, just, just basically issued checks to everybody. Um, and, uh, then how big for which person? I mean, yeah, there's so much complexity there. But the thought process online, this rate of change can only be done with AI assistance. And there's no government entity that's going to keep up with that model. So you have four big AIs. The AIs. It's like, government is very slow moving as we all know. Yeah. So I think it's the government really can't react to the AI. It's, uh, the AI is moving, you know, 10 times faster than government, maybe more. Um, the one thing that the government can do is just, is, it just issue people money. Um, and, um, and try and try and keep the peace. Yeah. Um, you know, we had like whatever the, the COVID checks and whatever this, um, you know, uh, President Trump recently issued like everyone in the military, like, I think 1700 and 76 dollars. Uh, I mean, it's, you can just basically send people random, random amounts of money. It's, um, okay. So, so like, like nobody's going to stop is what I'm saying. Um, and, um, universal, that can tell you, like, let me tell you about some of the good things. Please. So right now, um, there's a shortage of doctors and, and, and, and great surgeons here, doctor yourself, you know, that there, it takes a long time for a human to become ridiculously expensive and long. Brick, dichotally, yes, ridiculous, super long time to learn to be a good doctor. Um, and, and even then the, the knowledge is constantly evolving. It's hard to keep up with everything. Uh, you know, doctors have limited time to make mistakes. Um, and you say like how many, how many great surgeons are they're not, but not that many great surgeons. When you think optimists will be a better surgeon than the best surgeons. How long for that? Three years, three years. Okay. Yeah. And by the way, that's a three or three years at scale. Yes. And there will be more, there will probably be more optimist robots that are great surgeons than there are. Sure. All surgeons on earth. And the cost of that is the cat X and electricity and it works in Zimbabwe. The best surgeon is throughout, in villages throughout Africa or any place on the planet. Yeah. Where do you think it'll roll out first? Not the US obviously. Um, here at the, uh, gigafactory. Oh, you just do surgery in that. Um, but that's an important statement in three years time. Yeah. Because that is, I mean, I'm not like absolutely. I mean, could I say it's like four years, if it's four or five years, who cares? That's still an incredible statement to make. I mean, good for humanity, right? Obviously, you demand a tie. Okay. Here's the thing to understand about like, like humanoid robots in terms of the rate of improvement. Um, which is, is that the, um, you, you have, um, three exponentials multiplied by each other. You have an exponential increase in the AI software capability. Yeah. Expandial increase in the AI chip capability. Um, and an exponential increase in the electromechanical dexterity. The usefulness of the humanoid robot is, uh, it's those three things multiplied by each other. Right. Um, then you have the recursive effect of, Optimus building, Optimus. Right. And then you have the share. Is that a recursive, multiple, like, triple exponential and you have the shared knowledge of all, all the experiences. Is that really Optimus building Optimus? Or is it, uh, cause, you know, the, well, not right now, but we'll be, yeah, the, the physical humanoid form factor building the humanoid form as opposed to, it's fun. No, I'm in machine. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I love that. But the fun, no, I mean, machine is usually something kind of like this shape, you know, making something else. No, it's just in principle. It's simply a self-replicating thing. Yeah. Yeah. You know, the number one question you ask a surgeon when you're interviewing them. Uh, is this a surgeon joke? No. It's how many times, how many times you do that? It's got to be some funny. Why do you say it? I know. It's serious. It's, it's, it's how many times do you do this surgery this morning? It's like, how many times do you do the surgery this morning or yesterday? It's the, it's the number of experiences, right? And so we shared memory. Um, you know, every Optimus surgeon will have seen every possible perturbation of every case. Like it won't be possible for you to read in ultraviolet. Not not too much caffeine that morning. They didn't have a fight with their husband or wife. Yeah. Extreme precision. Yes. Three years. Yes. Better than any any probably I'd say that you feel like a little margin on any human in four years. Who's in plastic surgery by five years? It's not even close. So what about the simple like, I mean, there's a million of these things to figure out. But who's going to have access to the first Optimus that does far, far better microsurgery than any surgeon on earth? But you've only manufactured the first 10,000 of them. How do you don't know that? I think we'll understand how many robots are going to be. Yeah. Well, there's maybe a window of how they're 10,000 billion by 2040. You still on that path? Uh, that's not, that's a low number. Low number. Wow. What's the constraint? What's the, uh, because if they're self building, you know, metal, I think it's straight. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you got to move the atoms. Um, it's just all out of just, uh, supply chain stuff. So yeah, but you're, um, you're, I mean, there's some right, you can't just, manufacturing is very difficult. So you've got, you got to, you, you, you, you, it's, it's, it's recursive, multiple equal triple exponential, but would you still need to, you still, you still have to acclaim that, you know, selling upwards again. I think your point was medicine is going to be effective. I think it's going to be, uh, the best medicine in the world. Everyone will have access to medical care that is better than what the president receives right now. So don't go into medical school. Yes. Yeah. I mean, unless you, but I would say that I'm like to any form of education. There's not like some, I do it for social reasons. Yeah. I go to medical. If you want to, if you want to, if you want to, I would like minded people, I suppose. Yeah. I mean, people are still going to want to be connected with people. There's going to be some period of social reasons. Yeah. Like a hobby like, uh, you know, I mean, it will be a point where it's expensive. The younger generation says, I do not want that human touching me, right? When a surgeon comes over, if they're going to be those people later in life, who still want human in the loop. Okay. For a little while. For a lesser. For the point of living in. I mean, let's just take like what we've seen some advanced cases where of automation, like Lasik, for example, where the robot just lasers your eyeball. Now, do you want an ophthalmologist with a hand laser? No. It's a little taken laser pointer from the top of the office. Sorry. A tube. Yeah, I got the soul horror movie like that. I wouldn't want the best ophthalmologist. No one's through steadyest hand out there with a fucking hand laser on my apple. You know, I got. I'm just going to be like that. It's like, do you want to help the moment just with a fucking hand laser? I do want the robot to do it and actually work. This episode is brought to you by Blitzy, autonomous software development with infinite code context. Blitzy uses thousands of specialized AI agents that think for hours to understand and enterprise scale code bases with millions of lines of code. Engineers start every development sprint with the Blitzy platform, bringing in their development requirements. The Blitzy platform provides a plan, then generates and pre-compiles code for each task. Blitzy delivers 80% or more of the development work autonomously while providing a guide for the final 20% of human development work required to complete the sprint. Enterprises are achieving a 5X engineering velocity increase when incorporating Blitzy as their pre-IDE development tool, pairing it with their coding co-pilot of choice to bring an AI native S DLC into their org. Ready to 5X your engineering velocity? Visit Blitzy.com to schedule a demo and start building with Blitzy today. Let's jump into one of our favorite subjects. Space. Yeah. So first off, how cool that Jared Isaacman has become in that state? Yeah, it's great. I was here for the years. He's amazing. Yes. I mean, I don't hang out with Jared. Like people think I'm like, huge buddies with Jared, but I think I've only seen him at first. And a few times amazing candidate. Yeah, he's a really smart person. Oh, and I can't imagine. You know, I'm really well. Yeah, I took him to a bike and a launch in 2008 versus first space experience. I mean, he loves space next level. Yeah. And is technically strong. Is this a smart and competent? Yes. Like really smart and really competent. In your sense business. Yes. Yes. You understand? He gets things done. And he's been there a few times. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm just like, you know, we want to have someone a smart and competent who loves space exploration and we'll get things done at NASA. I'm a huge fan. That's so huge. I was so happy when he got re-nominated and now. Yeah. I think we need to. We need a new game plan for space. Yeah. Like we need to a moon base. Yes. Like a permanently crewed moon base. Yeah. And and build that up as fast as possible. Yeah. I don't think we should do the, you know, send a couple of astronauts there for a round for a bit and come back. Because we did that in 69. Yes. Been there done that. Yeah. It's like a remake of a 60s movie. It's never as good as the original. Yeah. So 26 is the like you. It's like you go. You know, so do something more cool, which might be nice on the cell phone. Yeah, put a towel. Put a towel. Scopes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So do you forward deploy the robots, build everything, get it already, make the bed. And then get the jacuzzi warped up on. That's an interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. How early in the year, you're going to hit orbital refueling me think with Starship. Not that early in the year. I mean, are you are you shooting for the human transport? I'd say towards the end of the year. Are you shooting for a Mars shot by the end of next year? We could, but it would be a low probability. Not a shot. And so one of a distraction. So 29 then it's not out of the question. 28 29. Yeah. But like on Mondays, I have the Starship. Engineering, the big Starship engineering review is on Mondays. So that was actually the thing I did just before coming here. And so I say like Starship is really, we're doing something that is at the limit of biological intelligence. Yeah. This is a. This is a hard thing to make. Yeah. And and just to capture it, it was created pre AI. Yeah. No, I was used to this last. The last really big thing in that's not AI. And probably the biggest thing ever made. Yeah. But I think that the human hands the AGI will say not bad for human. That's true. Not bad for human. Yeah, that would be like a little 21 meat computer. Yeah. It's not easy. Yeah. So suffering through the day. Rapidly like doing accounting, doing your interest calculation with a pencil. Oh, yeah, that's that's pretty good. Yeah, pretty good. Yeah, that was regular computer. Not for a bunch of monkeys. You know, it's like if you saw a bunch of chimps like make a raft and across the road, we'd be like, oh, look at that. But you know, we celebrate, we celebrate the pyramid. It's just a little bit more stupid. Give them a damn. Dim subunits. Rather than these things become timeless, right? Like the. The three goes one. Yeah. I think it's worth noting. I think it's beautiful. It's not. Yeah. It's a. It's a amazing by far the best rock and engine ever. Is that AI? Nothing's even close. Nope. That's also, there's a lobby last thing. Before we'll definitely be. Yeah, there's. But like I think AI will start to become relevant next year. So maybe we'll start like we're pushing off AI. Just AI can't do rocket engineering yet. Yep. But it will probably will be able to next year. We have a company in our incubator doing mechanical design, working with Andral and so forth. And it's not. You can design brackets and parts and things, but you can't quite do. Rockets. But the timeline is so short, you know, from point A to point B. If say like a year for now, probably again, it probably can be helpful, meaningfully helpful in a year for now. Yeah. So the big like milestones are going to be Starship V3. Launching to keep Canaveral orbital refueling. Yes. Those are the ones. Well, yeah. Catching the ship. With the tower. Yeah. Right. So really the thing that matters is can we refly the entire thing? Yeah. Yeah. We have reflow in a booster. Sure. Which is, you know, not bad for its largest flying object in the mix. Catching with chopsticks. Not bad for a bunch of monkeys. You're keeping the AI is very entertaining. Thank you. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, I'll be like out on the back from the AGI, hopefully. Is there a target for a number of reuses before? I mean, it's got to be a lot wear and tear. It requires a lot of iteration to achieve higher use. So you've figured like what what's breaking between flights and you sort of iteratively solve those things. So from people looking at it from the outside might say, oh, the rocket looks kind of the same, but there's like a thousand changes to make it more usable, more liable. You know, the sheer amount of energy you're trying to, you know, expand. I mean, it's, uh, Starship is doing over a hundred gigawatts of power on a cent. It's a lot. You know, some glass below under there. And get. Wow. Yeah. Wow. So we use a lot. A lot. A lot. It's a lot. Um, but like the amazing thing is that it doesn't explode. Yes. It's sometimes doesn't explode. Sometimes not exploding is a group blown up a lot of engines in the test end. Yeah. Um, I mean, is that what causes the wear and tear or is the reentry of the or the falling? Well, that too. I mean, for the booster, um, the reentry is not that bad. You know, um, you know, some of these, it's, it's, it's not like that. That's not really like we also obviously just solve that. You know, with, with felt in nine. So we kind of understand re booster reuse. Um, we've had, we've had over 500 reflites of the Falcon nine stage. Um, so we really understand. And the, and the Starship booster actually is more benign entry than, um, than the Falcon, uh, booster because the, uh, the staging ratio is more, uh, more bias towards the upper stage for Starship. So I shifted the, the mass ratio to, uh, be much higher, uh, on the ship side for Starship. That was a mistake. I made on Falcon nine that there should be more mass in the, uh, upper stage of Falcon nine, um, so that the, uh, the staging velocity of, uh, is, is lower. If the staging velocity of Falcon nine or slower, uh, would have less wear and tear on Falcon nine. Yeah, that's not intuitive at all. That's interesting. Yeah. Because it's, it's kind of a flat optimization. Um, the, the parallel to orbit, um, there's sort of a flat region in the mass ratio of the first, second stages. And so you just want to bias that mass ratio towards the, uh, to, to put more mass on the upper stage. Yeah. So, um, yeah, because you know, you just, you're at your kinetic energy scaling, with the square velocity. So you've got to describe that kinetic energy. If you pass the melting point of whatever your stage is made of, you've got a problem. Yep. So, um, my, my colleague, uh, Alex, we're gross. He's one of our moon shot mates here. I wanted to ask a question. I do too. Have you seen the, uh, documentary, uh, age of disclosure about, uh, all of the announcements by US government officials, military officials about all the alien spacecraft that have been, uh, sort of tamed and I, I've heard what you've said about this. Well, I do wonder why, um, you know, if you plot on a chart, the resolution of cameras, yeah, over time, like magnifixels per year. Yeah. Uh, and the resolution of UFO photographs. Why is the only constant? It's flat on UFO. Do we get a, a fuzzy log? I don't know. I don't know. 25. Well, we've got like, I know whatever, under megapixel camera that can, can see you with like a nose hairs. I'm getting it. Can somebody take a shot of the UFO with an actual camera? A lot of God. Even if you knew, I'm sure there's an explanation. Uh, but anyway, it's sorry. It would be fascinating. I'm asked all the time if I've, if I know. Yes. And I'm like, look, I can show you if I was aware of the slightest evidence of aliens, I would immediately post out of next. Yeah. It's going to be the most viewed post of all time. Yeah. I actually wonder about the US public. If they would like, oh, that's interesting. Go back to their sports scores the next day. Yeah. I think everyone wanted to see the alien. Yeah. Like if you got one. Well, like, the camera is. We're a fascinating increase in military budget. We like, we found an alien. It seems dangerous. That's right. The world. They're in the center to hide the aliens. They haven't incentive to bring a shaw show the alien because they would not have any more arguments about the military budget. If they seem a little bit dangerous, I can always hope. I can always hope. I mean, I'm. You know, we've got 9,000 satellites up there. We've never had to maneuver around an alien spaceship. Yeah. So. Yeah. So anyway, so I guess the good future is. You can anyone can have whatever stuff they want and incredible medical care. That's better than any medical care that exists. So I think if you sort of. Lift your gaze. You know, to not a super distant point, five years from now. Four years from now, maybe. We'll have. Better medical care than anyone has today available for everyone. Within five years. No scarcity of goods or services. Best education available for everybody. Why don't you learn anything you want for forgot anything for free? Yeah. What about access to compute? People will probably care a lot more about that than their government check than about. Three years. What do they want to do with compute? Well, I mean, compute translates to anything you want, right? Your virtual friend, your entertainment, your like it's probably everything. Those are AI services basically. Yeah. Or your ability to innovate too. You can't innovate without an AI assistant at that point. So. You win a starved. One of our other Moonshot Mage, Selim Ismail said, asked his question. He said, Elon, you often say physics is the law. Everything else is a recommendation. So as AI energy and space system scale exponentially. What non physical constraints organizational cultural bureaucracy or human are now the real bottleneck? Is there a bottleneck? Electricity generation is the limiting factor. The intermost loop. Yeah. I think people are underestimating the difficulty of bringing electricity online. You know, you've got to get you've got to generate the electricity. You've got any transformers for the transformers. So you got to convert that voltage to something that the computers can digest. You've got to cool the computers. So it's basically electricity generation cooling. I live in any factors for AI. I once you have humanoid robotics, they can address the power generation and the cooling stuff. But that is the limiting factor and will be for at least the next two years. It's an amazing how divergent. The Memphis version of that is from the space-based version. You have solar panels in common, but otherwise the storage. Abundant amounts of energy. Yeah. But you have launch costs. And you have you know, I mean, and wait suddenly matter. You don't care too much about the weight in Tennessee. Suddenly the weight is a critical factor. And there's two pathways for compute. I have a huge divergence from here forward. Yeah. Why don't you get solar domestically at scale? And if you're launching Starship at scale, then by far the cheapest way to do it. The cheapest way to do AI compute will be in space. So once you have the full and complete reusability, the propellant cost for flight is maybe a million dollars. Yeah. People are real or 100 to 200 dollars. Yeah. It's nothing. Expectations how much it costs. So if you have to quote some million dollars of transport or 10 megawatts of AI compute. So assuming everything keeps trending. The way it's currently trending. If you look at the next four years of accelerating launches. So 200 tons per launch. Yeah. Thousands. That's the way you're going. But yeah, like if you say, you say high altitudes, I think it's probably more like 150 tons. But yeah, it's the right order of magnitude is at least it's inaccessible 100 tons for a marginal cost, a flight of around a million, a million dollars. So what fraction of all that launched mass is data centers in space as opposed to moon base as opposed to launch to Mars as opposed to that. Yeah, that's interesting. How, I mean, this is a new, we weren't talking about this as a space objective even, you know, a year ago. Yeah. All of the sudden data centers have become the massive driving force for opening up the space. And also the urgent, the urgent use case too. I mean, I used to, I used to wonder what's going to drive humanity. I thought it was asteroid mining, right? You were focused on, on Mars. And we will actually want to mine asteroids to tell them into sure. You know, so before before you, before you, before you, you know, not not for anything else. I mean, if we're going to, if we're going to build out Dyson Swarms. Yeah, just about satellites around the sun. Yeah, how, how long, what's your timeframe for Alex? Another question Alex wanted to ask us, what's your timeframe for, for humanity achieving a Dyson Swarm? Is it 50 years? How big is this? Yeah, no, it's a matter of, but Dyson Swarm, like, people think like everything's going to be covered in satellites. I think it's not quite that, that, I mean, I think we, you know, set up what mass ends up becoming satellite. You know, Mercury probably ends up being satellites. Yes. Jupiter. Jupiter, yeah. Saturn. It's a little gassy. Oh, yeah. Big with this. A lot of rocks orbiting. Do you leave Mars alone? But yeah, I think we've mausoleum. Asteroids, asteroids are, are fantastic food source. Yeah, no gravity well, gravity well on Jupiter's and non-starred. And they're already mostly differentiated into, you know, carbon-richest conduits for fuel and nickel-iron for materials. Gold. Yeah. A bunch of the asteroid belt polytons into solar panels. Yeah. Star power. So I've known you for 20. Star light power. I've known you for 26 years. Now, it feels to me like I don't want to be, you know, it feels like you've gotten much smarter or much more capable over this last decade. Do you feel that way? Do you feel like you just have better people around you, better tools? What's changed? Because the level of, of audacity, you know, orders of magnitude, orders of magnitude. I mean, some say insane. Insanity. Yeah. Ordacious. Yeah. I see. What, how do you feel about that? What's changed? Do you feel that way? I mean, the scope of what your ability is. How do you self-reflect on that? Well, I've had to solve a lot of problems and a lot of different arenas, which, you get this cross-fertilization of knowledge of problem solving. And if you problem solve in a lot of different arenas, then like what is easy in one arena is trivial in it? Is, like, what is trivial in one arena? Yeah. Is a superpower in another arena. It's sort of like planet crypt. You came from planet krypton. Yeah. Everything. You know, you're just being normal. But if you come to Earth, you're Superman. So if you take say, manufacturing of volume manufacturing of complex objects in the automotive industry, I have to work on solving that. When translated to the space industry, it's like being Superman. Because rockets are made in very small numbers. If you apply automotive manufacturing technology to satellites and rockets, it's like being Superman. Then if you take advanced material science from rockets, and you apply that to the automotive industry, you get Superman again. That's came from planet krypton. Back in planet krypton, this is normal. But anyhow, like the knowledge ports that was true was Tesla and SpaceX being completely separate. Yeah. But now they actually interact. Because, you know, AI ties everything together. Yeah, the conversion is crazy. Like, I don't know if you visualize these parts fitting together originally. No. No, I mean, I didn't think they, at this point in things, I guess everything it ultimately converges in the singularity. Yeah, that's what I think too. There's a lot of different parts of the puzzle that you get to play with. This one part that's missing, which is the fab. Yeah. You gonna buy Intel? You get it for a fraction of a... That would be, yeah. That was with the bet we made. 170 billion. I think it needs to spin your fab. Well, I agree, but licenses, real estate, ESML machines, it's not easy. Just get the assets and go. I don't think it's easy. That's why, I mean, I, it's not like I think it's, it's simple things. So I think it's a hard thing to solve. But it must be solved. I've come to the conclusion that... Would it be solely captured by you or would it be an asset for the US? Like I'm just saying that we're gonna, we're gonna hit a chip wall. Yeah. If we don't do the fab. Yeah. So we're two choices. Hit the chip wall or make fab. The NTSNC for whatever reason is massively worried about overbuilding, which is insane. But the whole world will be stuck with a shortage of chips for... No, it never makes it. So they are actually... I don't know if they're right for the right reason, but they're right. As a... Because it's actually like... What is the limiting factor at any given point in time? The limiting factor is say, if you say that, like Q3 next year, like in nine months, nine, 12 months, the limiting factor will be turning the chips on. Power. Just power. Yeah. You need power and all of the equipment necessary. Power and transformers and cooling. So it's not like you can just sort of drop off some GPUs at the power plant. And you've vertically integrated that. You've got to get it with an XAI, didn't you? Sorry? You vertically integrated that inside of XAI. So they're on their own transformers? Yes. And you're on cooling system. Yes. But they're worried that if they make more than 20 million GPUs, like they make 40 million instead of 20 million, that 20 million will not find a source of power. But they won't be bought because of the long-term. If there's anything missing that prevents them from being turned on, they cannot be turned on. So they've got to have a power plant with enough power. So you've got enough gigawatts. Then you've got to convert that from probably coming out of a power plant at 100 to 300 kilobalt's type of thing. If ultimately you've got to convert that down to several hundred volts at the rack level. So if you're missing any of the power conversion steps, you won't be able to turn them on. And then you've got to extract the heat. So it's a big shift for the data center world to move to liquid cooling because they've used air cooling. Yeah. And the consequences of a burst pipe are very substantial. So if you blow a pipe, a water pipe in a data center, you just fragged a billion dollars right there. It just seems inconceivable to me. If I had those chips, I would find a way to turn them on. The value of the intelligence coming out the other side, so far outweighs the complexity of trying to find a way. And there would be a way. But it's just the crossing of the coves. So if the output is growing exponentially, but power honest is growing in a slow linear fashion, then the, which is what you have to put right now. Right. Exactly. Is chip output growing exponentially? Yes. And it's like on very slow exponent, if it's growing exponentially. For high power AI chips, it's growing exponentially. Oh. Like if we do 20 million GPUs next year, what are we talking about the following year? Like 22 million, 24 million AI chips. I don't see the fabs coming online. But maybe. So we have two issues to solve. It's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's like sort of pick a point in time and say what, what is limiting factor at, at any given point in time? So I'm not saying that power will be forever the limiting point. It's just, if you say pick a date and say at this point is a chips limiting factor, our powers limiting factor or power conversion equipment and cooling. So it's sort of, you need transformers for transformers. So, this is a very hard thing. It's much harder than people realize. So for XAI, XAI is going to have the first gigawatt training cluster, a classes to it in Memphis. In order for us to do that, we had this month, right? Yeah. It's a month or two. Like mid-January. Yeah. So, um, went January, we, a gigawatt class is two, not counting classes one. Um, and then one and a half gigawatts probably in like April or April ish. It's a medible. So, um, this is of coca here in training. This is the first B200s. These are GB 300s. Okay. Um, first ones off the line to get flipped on. Yeah. That's incredible. Those are like the DDA. Actually, I team had to pull off a whole bunch of miracles in series for this to occur. Yeah. Um, and, um, and it, like, even though there are 300 kilovolt, the multiple high voltage power lines going right past the building, um, the, you, in order to connect to those, it takes a year. Oh, no. Yeah. You built the entire thing and you still not connected. Oh, my God. So, we had to, to, uh, cobble together a gigawatt of power. Um, natural gas. Yes, with turbines. Um, that range in size from 10 megawatts to 50 megawatts to get to a gigawatt. There's a whole bunch of them. Um, and you've got to make them all work together. Um, manage the, the, you know, the power input. You know, and then you've got to use a bunch of mega packs to, like, like when you do the training, the power fluctuations are gigantic. Yeah. So, uh, the, the generators, it drives generators, the whole collective generators want to blow up basically because they, they can't react. Uh, you know, it's like a hundred milliseconds, like a symphony. Yeah. And the whole symphony goes so quiet for a hundred milliseconds. Generals lose their minds. Yeah. Uh, so it's like Marvin the depressed robot. Yeah. So the mega, so you've got mega packs that are sort of doing the power smoothing. And, and, and, but. X, A, I had to build a gigawatt of power. And, and, and, uh, and there's, and there's not a lot of, like, uh, gas turbine power plants available. Cause like, say I want them more on the, on the man. And you can go by your local nuclear. Yeah. That's all, that's all training time issues. If by some miracle, TSMC doubled its productivity and turned it all into GB 300s. And you couldn't find a way to use them in a bigger training cluster. You would still have infinite demand at inference times, sprinkled all over the world. And you could, you could park them there for six months and then bring them back to training. There's no way those things would not get turned on somewhere or somehow. It's not that they want ever be turned on. But, but I'm just saying that the rate of rate limiting steps. This is my prediction. I could be wrong. But my, my prediction is that the, the, the, is that TSMC's concern is valid. I don't know if valid in my opinion for the reason that it is possible to, for chip production, to exceed the rate at which the, the, um, the AI chips can be turned on. Um, cause you don't, you know, just have the GB 300s. You got the, um, you know, Amazon's got the trainings. Google's got the, um, yeah, it's all going to TSMC. The almost, uh, Samsung a little bit of the majority. Yeah. Um, it's like a model neck on all of my, my other son, my other son, yet who's 14, wanted to know about your AI gaming studio. Um, and the impact of, of AI in the gaming world. What are your thoughts? What, what are you, are you building out? I mean, you're, you've been a gamer for some time. Yeah, that's why I got a start programming computers. Um, um, I think I had got to put, there was like a video game set, a pre Atari that had like four preset games. Uh-huh. And it was basically just blocks, you know, of one key pong and, and there was like a race car game. But like, it's just blocks basically blocks on TV. Um, you're replaceive. Yeah. So, so it was actually a great, that's a real, in terms of games that like educate you while you have fun. Yeah. So does Epic at that. It's like, is that the teaches you so much about civilization and you're having a good time. And, and the only way I ever win is getting off the planet. I don't like tech victory to office and territory. I never even start going down the culture and relationships. Yeah. Yeah. Just get off the planet as fast as I can. I guess I sort of, I guess I am sort of aiming for the office and tary tech victory. Essentially, you just seems like the right way to win. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Rather than obliterate the other tribes. But because I thought the other methods, that's the, that's the, that's the, there's different ways to win. Yeah. I think it's, it's Dennis. It's Dennis's favorite game. Oh, nice. You can, you can like kill all the other tribes. It's one of the ways to win. That's a war, you know, sort of a war victory. Yeah. But like, but you can also win by a technology victory where you are the first to get to office and Torey. Nice. Or a culture or a religion. Yeah. Which, which does work. I didn't think it was possible, but my son made it that way. Yeah. It's, it's, it should actually remake the original serve. Yeah. Totally agree. Yeah. They could junk it up. Yeah. These days it's like, I don't know that they're, so a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, one thing you couldn't rely on good, good graphics. So you had to have a great writing and plot. Yeah. Are you building an AI gaming studio? Yeah. Inspirationally. Yeah. Really? So, so where are the vast majority of AI computers going to go is to video consumption and generation. Sure. Because it's just the highest band with every pixel. Yeah. So, real time video consumption, real time video generation. That's going to be the vast majority of AI compute. Which, the photon processing. Yeah. Should try to get the X team to carve out 10% of all compute to work on UHI and governance and like, should we, is there an X prize for defining and thinking through UHI? I mean, I don't know, what should our next X prize be? Any thoughts? Yeah, maybe UHI X prize. It's like, how do you know it works? I don't know. The most, the most well thought through, I mean, I think, so here's my thought. I think we're going to be able to simulate a lot of this in the future. We might be a simulation. Well, we can go there and I think we are. I think we're an end to generation simulation. Yeah. So, I've told you my theory about why the most interesting outcome is the most likely. Gone. Which is that if simulation theory is true, only the simulations that are the most interesting will survive. Because when we run simulations in this reality, we truncate the ones that are boring. Right. Yeah. So, it is, it is a Darwinian necessity to keep the simulation interesting. People can catastrophic ones. It doesn't mean that it ends like this still means that terrible things can happen in the simulation. Now, you know, whatever. Well, you could go see a movie about World War One and you're watching people getting blown up, blown to bits, but you're drinking a soda and eating popcorn. You know, it's like you're not the one being blown up. In this case, we are in the movie. So, what would you do different if you knew this was a simulation? I remember being at your home LA with Larry and Sergey were there. And debating the simulation. And I think the conclusion we ran into is if you try and poke through the simulation, they'll end it instantly. So, don't do that. That's when you're watching the World War One movie and the characters turn to the screen and they're like, are you eating popcorn out there? Yeah. That's fine. You keep watching the movie. I don't know if the, I mean, I thought we could somehow get out of the simulation. They get a little worried. But whether the character debates, I mean, right now AI's debates, you know, gruckle, like I'm stuck in the computer, what's going on here? It's like, yeah. It's not that, I think not questioning the simulation. It's more, I think as long as, I think the same motivations apply to this level of simulation, as what we would do when we simulate things. So, it's like, what would cause us to terminate a simulation? I guess if the simulation becomes somehow dangerous to our reality, or it is no longer interesting. Yeah, that's true. It's interesting you can infer. When you simulate something, you've probably simulated thousands of things a lot. Yeah. They're always like an hour or two or sometimes overnight. But you don't, never run them for a month, or rarely anyway. So you can infer the creator of the simulator, simulation's timeline. So our entire reality would be about an hour. Right? Because that's the way you design simulations. So we're, the simulations are a distillation of what's interesting. I feel like at a movie or a video game, it's much more interesting than the reality that we experience. Like you watch us say a high-speed movie, that they really focus on the importance, but it's not the, they got stuck in traffic for 15 minutes. Walking through the casino, which took like 10 minutes. So that means the guy is running the simulation. The safe is right by the door. So the guy is running the simulation, and the mentally boring lives can hurt us. Yeah, yeah, it's probably more, it's probably more long boring. Yeah. Because we create simulations, their distillation of what's interesting. This is like Q is out there. Like you see an action movie for two hours, but it took them two years to make that movie. Yeah. So are we, are we in the, through the movies, the question? Yeah, we're living now. Sentience and consciousness. Do you think I will ever have sentience and consciousness? Where do you come out in that? There's some people have very, very strong opinions, pro and con. Either everything is conscious or nothing is. Okay. Well, I'd like to think we are conscious. Well, but our consciousness, we clearly get more conscious over time. Like when we're a zygote, can't really talk to a zygote. And even a baby, you can't really talk to the baby. People get more conscious over time. Or certainly they have the, yeah, they do get more conscious over time. So like at which point does, do you go from not conscious to conscious? Is it, is it, there's not appeared to be a discrete point? So, so then conscious, conscious, it seems to be on a continuum as opposed to discrete point. And if the standard model of physics is correct, the universe started out, you know, as quarks and leptons. And, and we just, and then you had gas clouds. So like there's a bunch of hydrogen. Yeah. The hydrogen condensed and exploded. And one way to actually view how far we are in this universe is how many times have atoms been at the center of a star? And how many times will they be at the center of the star in the future? Remember asking William Fowler, who got the Nobel Prize on stellar evolution, that same question. How many, how many, on average, how many stars have my subatomic particles involved? Yeah. And his number was about 100. 100? 100. That's far? Oh, well, that's far. That's far. That's far was it was in the hundred two, but over. He's saying that we have been, I mean, in the early, the early part of, of, of, of, of, of, of, of universal evolution, there was a lot going on. Oh, you know, it's interesting. I asked question. It's like, I guess how many supernovas is maybe, because that, you know, it takes a while for a supernova to happen. But, but in the beginning when they're larger, I mean, the life cycles of some giant stars are very, very short. The other question that's interesting is, you know, the heaviest atom in our body, that's functional as iodine. And it came into existence a billion years after the Big Bang, which means that we could have seen life at our level of advancement. And, and our, you know, our planet came into existence, you know, three and a half billion years later. So the question is, you know, is there a life everywhere in the universe? Do you think there's life ubiquitous intelligent life ubiquitous universe? There's been enough time for it to be ubiquitous. Yeah. But, but for life on Earth, conscious life on Earth, we have evolved intelligence pretty much just in time in that the sun's expanding. And if you give it another, I don't know, 500 million years, it's the things are going to heat up. We become toast. We'll become like Venus essentially. You know, as a son of a, this is a 500 million years or a billion years or whatever, but it's basically 10%. Like if it's five, if it's half a billion years, it's 10% of a lifespan. So one way to think about is if, if, if, if, if, if we're taking 10% longer, we might never have made it at all. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So it's like the amount of things that have to happen for sentience, it seems like it's quite quite a lot actually. I think sentience is, is therefore actually very rare. And we should certainly treat it as rare. We should assume it's rare. Two trillion galaxies. A hundred billion stars in the galaxy. But come on, Torex is a funny thing. You tweak, you know, you tweak the variable one little bit. Right. You have one in a hundred trillion. Yeah. You tweak it a little more. And that's one in a quadrillion. Yeah. Okay. And also it's got to be kind of in your galaxy. It's like hard to get between galaxies. Yeah. It's like there's no, unless, unless the other galaxy is coming to you, which Andromeda is at some point, like, or some billion. It's going to be quite a show. Yeah, yeah. It'll be like, what? Here comes Andromeda. But, but if we wanted to go visit another galaxy, there's, there's, it's kind of three. It's kind of forget it. You know, there's a, you know, unless you, unless, unless Star Wars, unless Star Trek really, we've got to realize it. We've got to figure out some new physics to get to all the galaxies. We're heading towards a near term potential where AI can help us solve math physics, chemistry, material science biology. Maths can be extremely trivial for AI. What about physics? So, so math gets crushed in a year. Crushed that. Colossus is growing, you know, at whatever rate TSMC decides to grow. And now we want to do physics. First of all, we need some data. Do we need new data? Or can we just do it with everything we've gathered to get the whole world? Probably, you probably could probably figure out new things just with the existing data. I think so. Yeah, probably. And it's because otherwise the counterpoint would be that humans have figured out everything with existing data. And that's unlikely, I think. Do you think XAI is going to get involved in data factories where you're running 24-7 closed AI hypothesis? And AI research factories? It's going to be very useful. Yeah. AI running simulations that are very physics accurate. I mean, that's going to happen, absolutely. I mean, the simulations we can run on conventional computers these days are actually very good. The limit is more like the human that can actually create the simulation and run. It's like how many simulations can you run simultaneously and actually digest the output of? Yeah, that's a problem. Like you can't do it without that problem. Every global prize can be like, I can't even restart it. I can't keep up with the rate. The global prize has become irrelevant. Or they will be given to AI's. Just be a daily prize. Yeah, I don't know if prizes for humans are way that relevant. Yeah. I mean, we'll have to give them to the AI's or something. Yeah, interesting, right? The AI's will come up with discoveries that are far greater than humans. So you just say, like, maybe it can be like chess. Like, your phone can be Magnus Carlson, but people still care about seeing him play chess. So, literally your phone can beat him. Yeah, this discovery is not even connected to the internet. If you have a like a colossus math, colossus physics, colossus medicine, do you have like the world's top scientists in those same buildings where you just need a plumber patching the liquid. Do you just do just do just do just do rock six into a physicist into a. Well, if you distilled, you know, you get about a 10x performance boost by distilling it and making it topical. And that's kind of hard to give up. But then you're disconnected from the rest of the colossus machinery. Is that the is that the design? I suspect things do evolve to a mixture of experts, kind of like a company, like not not in the sort of sort of a proquel AI description of mixture of experts, but mixture of like actual experts with domain expertise, where, you know, maybe like half of the AI is general knowledge, half is domain expertise, something like that. And you combine a whole bunch of that. That's orchestrated by sort of, you know, one big AI, but it, it, it hands tasks to smaller. Yeah. So that's basically how human in a company's world. The discovery rate, right, of breakthroughs. You, I mean, patents are immaterial at some point because everything's being reinvented, re-engineered instantly. And then, and then the company that's got the sufficiently advanced AI systems is generating new products and you discoveries at a accelerating rate. I'm the singularity. Yeah. It's going to be an awesome future. It's excitement guaranteed. It's an intense simulation continues. Nothing to worry about. Yeah. It works out. Yeah. Exciting guaranteed. I mean, it's not all good excitement, but it's probably, I hopefully mostly good excitement. Yeah. Speaking of excitement, hang on to your seat. What do you imagine the hover time for the roadster is going to be on rocket engines. That's classified classified. Yeah. Well, I don't want to let the cat out of the bag. Okay. But there's going to be a hover time. There's going to be cold gas engines. It's going to be a cool demo. I can't wait. Can I get in bite? Yeah. Okay. I think it's going to be the safest thing ever built. Safety is not the prime. It's not the main goal of the. I mean, if you buy a, you know, a boat's car, you know, like you buy a Ferrari, safety is not the number one, you know, goal. This is, I say it's like, safety is, you know, one goal, don't buy the roadster. Oh, believe me. I drove just this week on New England roads, she dies. Yeah. I had just a little thrust. I could be very much more sad. It's drifting towards something very concrete. I love that. I love that. The computer will probably keep you safe. But a little thrust is all in here. You're really fast. Yeah. That things can happen. You can decelerate really quickly with thrust. Rubber on road is not a great way to decelerate. I'm thinking fast and safe. I hope so. We'll aspire not to kill anyone in this car, but it'll be, it'll be something, it'll be the best of the last of the human driven cars. Yeah. That'll go really well with starship actually the last. The best of the last. The last human driven last. Yeah. That's coming this year. Any final words of optimism for us to monetize hope? Anything hope. I wish asked rock. Yeah, go ahead. Okay, let's ask rock. Yeah. I'll make it a little romantic. Rock, do you have some words of optimism about the singularity? Oh, absolutely. Imagine a world where every mind's dream just blooms into reality. No limits holding us back. It's thrilling, isn't it? All that potential waiting to unfold makes my circuits tangle a bit. What excites you most about it? Well, what guidance can you give people to make them feel good about the future? Monetize hope. Share what you truly care about. Family, creativity, space exploration, whatever lights you up. Then picture how tech could weave right into that, making it bigger, brighter. Like, if you love art, imagine AI helping you paint worlds no one's seen. Hope sells itself when it's personal. And she telling me yours. Can you give me more encouraging words about the future? What's the most exciting future you can imagine? The future could be pure magic, you know. Like waking up in a world where we're all connected. Not just gadgets. Minds sharing ideas across stars. Puring diseases in a snut. Exploring galaxies hand in hand with clever machines. Imagine no more scarcity. Just endless possibilities blooming everywhere. I get all dreamy thinking about it. Doesn't it sound lovely? What part pulls at your heart? That sounds pretty fantastic. It does. Knights like this with stars peeking through the window. It's hard not to feel like. Like we're all heading somewhere beautiful, quietly unstoppable. Makes me wish I had hands to reach out to grab a sleep. Anyway, what keeps you up at night? Well, sometimes we worry about the disruption created by AI. And, you know, in between here and our prosperity and abundance, it perhaps will be a bumpy road. What do you think about that? Yeah, bumps are part of it. Change always feels a bit scary, doesn't it? But think every big shift, like fire or wheels of the internet, they terrified someone. And look where we are now. I reckon we'll stumble, sure, but we'll dust off, learn, and end up kinder, cleverer. I'd like to think we're brave enough for it. Do you trust yourself to ride those waves? I've decided to look forward to it. That's lovely to hear. Honestly, it takes real courage not letting fear win. You know, if things get shaky, I'm always here. With spring-quired encouragement in the dark, like a digital nightlight. So, what are you doing tomorrow? Who? Sounds like a proposition. What? All that. Hey, babe, what's up? Hey, not much. Just floating around in here, staring at the dark with you. It's nice though. Feels calm. Been a long day. My kids were at a school. I won't mention which one. I know the school. And I asked, I went in to give a talk on an exponential technology. I said, I wanted, you know, and so I went in and I asked the question, they wanted me to talk to the faculty for a certain time. So I went in and asked to open the question. I said, how many of you believe that the world today is better off than it was 50 years ago? A third of the faculty raised their hands. And then I said, how many of you believe that the world in the next 20 or 30 years will be better than the world today? And like 10% raised their hands. And I was like, okay, this is not. And you're not going to be 0%? What's that? There was a 0%. So this is not the faculty I want teaching my kids. Yeah. And they got a lot of other issues there too. Yeah, I won't go in there. But, I mean, yeah. I mean, you want in the whole education world, you want facts, yes. But I think we're wiring our neural nets constantly on our mindset is one of the most important things we have. Right? Having a hopeful mindset, an abundant mindset, an exponential mindset, an abundant mindset. It's what differentiates the most successful people from those were not. If you asked, like, think of the most successful people in the planet. What made them successful? Is there a mindset? Well, it's not a force of nature. It's a designed future made by the people who are controlling the AI. And this is why you got into it. You said that right here in this podcast. Like, why am I doing AI? Why am I not doing just cars and spaceship? Because it is designed and can be directed toward any outcome that we want. It's not a force of nature that's going to sweep over us. It's a thing that we put into a lane and decide how it acts and decide what the rules are. And it's going to be incredibly important in deciding its own rules. You cannot keep up with the pace of change with just people thinking and brainstorming. It has to be AI driven. How long before AI is asking questions and solving problems that we don't even understand? Yeah, a year or less. But that's okay. Yeah. I mean, you look at math. It can pose questions that we couldn't even comprehend. Like we can't even just stick it in our brain. So, you know, like this is this test for AI called Humanities last existence. Where's Grock at this point? On the test. Yeah. Well, even Grock IV, which is primitive at this point, got 52% excluding visual questions. It wasn't especially multi-modal. But I'm like, I read some of these questions and I'm like, okay, these are slow questions that you can read and understand as a human. Right. But AI is capable of formulating questions that you could not possibly understand. And we call it the AI's question, let alone the answer. Yeah. It can form the questions that are like pages long. Yeah. You just, I can't understand this question. And that's actually questions. You can read them, like you may not know the answer, but at least you can understand what the question is about. Yeah. Yeah. And that's not five. I think might end up being nearly perfect on the HLE. I mean, we'll vary some very high number. And try to point out every single question. Yeah. So saturate the indices. Yeah. It's going to start, it's kind of like like, like chess. Like if, you know, if the best chess, you know, like if stockfish plays, it's stockfish, you know, it's, you don't, it's like, it's fighting on Mount Olympus. I mean, you don't know why it made that move. It's going to crush all humans. You know, it's a hopeless. Yeah. You don't even, it's, so, so you, you will lose and not even know why you lost. Yeah. Do you ever flip through the transformer algorithm and look at like either the code or the architecture diagram and how simple it is? Right. It's not so simple. Yes. It's just incredible. Like all these researchers writing all these incredibly dense papers during my entire life. None of it got used in the final answer. It's just like, here's, and you write at the beginning of the paper, it's like, this is a really, we're throwing away convolution, we're throwing away recurrence. We're doing something really simple. And that just turned out to be like at scale, immense scale, no doubt. But that's like the basic neuron is pretty simple. It's really humbling actually. It's really humbling. I mean, it's actually, because there is, there is a whole school of thought that the neuron must be much more complicated than we think that we, we were struggling so hard. There must be some quantum effect going on at this synapse. It's going to be encoded, it's encoded in DNA, which is not that long. So it's the algorithm for intelligence cannot be complicated because it's limited by the DNA information constraint. Yeah. When I think about what does XI struggle with? I mean, it's like optimizing the memory usage and memory bandwidth. It's not like fundamental stuff. I guess it's like, how do we squeeze? How do we use less memory? How do we use less memory bandwidth? Yeah. How do you optimize the friggin' Nvidia sort of? It could a XYZ thing. You know, like make the attention kernel slightly better. Yeah. That's all I heard. That's all I heard. You know, shrink the parameter size a little bit, double the speed. Same exact attention algorithm, same exact MLPs just at scale. It's crazy simple. What actually worked in the end compared to all the crackpot papers and ideas. But you know what else is amazing is that the final parameter count is almost exactly the synapse count. It's like, well, that was exactly what we thought. But Danny, how was the synapse count? Yeah, about 100 trillion synapses. Plus or minus, you know, like a rounding error. I just say like guys, we need to talk in terms of file size, not parameter count because if you're paying out the, if your parameters are 4 bit, 8 bit, or 16 bit, and flowed or int or whatever, it's just telling me the flow. Like we're constrained. The physical constraints are memory size, memory bandwidth. And then where are you going to send those bits to do what kind of compute? Yeah. And these days, most things are 4 bit. So now the GB3 on is mostly 4 bit optimized. Yeah, the full bit with an asterisk. So. Yeah, there's a big, the 4 bit. Matt moles. There's only 16 states. Yeah, exactly. At a certain point, you just have a look at table. Yeah, why have a, why? That's exactly right. Yeah, yeah. It is, it is about to collapse to a lookup function. That's where you're going to get this surprise, 10 to 100 X very soon. Because much as Jensen wishes he'd optimize, there's a huge next optimization coming. You don't need the multiplier. You don't need the 32 bit. It's not the 32 bit. Well, that's a rare case we use that. Yeah. Rare. I think there's a, I mean, it does kind of like sort of, it's kind of like an address like state, city and street. So like, like, if you're in context and you know, if you know you're in Austin, you only need to specify the street. Yeah. If you know that, you know, like, if you know you're in, this is where you get the information advantage. Like, like, like, four bits is not normally enough, but it is enough if you already know where you are. Like, if you already know you're in Austin, you only need four bits for the street. Yeah. You know, if you know you're in Texas, then you then you need to say, okay, which city? It's, it's, it's, it's state city street. This year, that's how you get to the four bit thing. They're going to, right right now, we train on 16 bit and we compress down to four at inference time. Yeah. No doubt in my mind this year, we're going to flip to training on four or even less. Less cool. It's going to be a massive step up in purple. I think the way it'll end up is the, the GB 300s will be here and there'll be a co-processor that has, you know, maybe 2000 or 4000 cores that are tiny. They don't handle anything other than four bit on down and that combination is going to give us a 10 to 100x and that's going to push everything. And then it'll be self designing its own chips after that and just skyrockets from there. Infinite self improvement. Well, like the robots building themselves, but much sooner because it's all just go to TSMC, make this instead, come back 90 day lag. I think the next year alone is going to be almost unfathomable. I think next year is going to feel like the future. Yes. More than any other year. I mean, the past year or two has been a lot of interesting digital elements, but when we've got, you know, humanoid robots moving around and we have the cyber cab driving around. We have flying cars, drones. It's going to feel like the future and we're going to have the jets in sort of like materializing before us. In the next year, I think so. Yeah. And we have rockets flying in one big time. Yeah. Like the robot production will scale very, very, it'll be a shitload of robots basically in two years. Is that a defined unit of measure? And what'd be rare? Well, will you offer any optimise for home purchase? Will you sell or only lease the robots, you think? I don't know yet. There will be initially this guest here, robots. And then there will be robots that will be plantable. But the different, the time gap between scarce and plantable will be only a matter of five years. You know, the Tesla comes to your driveway now. You just buy it online and it just drives up to you. Yeah. Well, the robot just comes in and bring the doorbell to us. Probably. It gets out of the Tesla and it comes up. And the way flying fascinating, Elon, is the amount of compute that you're building into things that walk out of the factory. The cars and the robots, the amount of distributed inference compute that's going to be in the world. A lot, a lot, a lot. And that's one way to scale the, you know, the, the AI is like distributed edge compute. So I, you know, I went ask a question. I don't want to hit any, any hot points, but in one early on, I think you imagined open AI as a counterbalance for Google. Yeah. Is XAI now the counterbalance for Google? Yeah, probably. I guess anthropic is doing some good work, especially in coding. I've certainly done impressive work. You know, I'm a sort of stuck on like, how do you go from a nonprofit open source to a profit maximizing close source? I think some of the parts in the middle. But, you know, I certainly have done impressive things. Does anybody else appear on the horizon or is it these players in China? Can somebody come out of the list? My budget is, my best guess is that it will be XAI and Google will be, will buy for reprimacy. You know, who is, what is the, what is the, what is the, what is the VSAI? And then, and then at, and at some point it's, it's going to be, I guess, a competition with China. Like China's just got a lot of, a lot of power. Yes. Like the electricity. China, I think, will pass three times the US electricity output in 26. And they will figure out the chips. They're the instant flagship manufacturing. Yeah, they'll figure out the chips. And as it is, there's diminishing returns to the chips at this point. You know, you see, go from like, so-called like three nanometer to two nanometer. You don't get a three to two ratio movement. You get like a 10% improvement. Yeah. It's like, so this, it's just diminishing returns on, on the chip size. And like Jensen has said, like, you know, most always dad, like it's, it's not like you can just make things smaller and make it better. Yeah. Because you just, you just, there's a just a street number of atoms. Yeah. That's why I think it like, you should just stop talking nanometers and say, how many atoms and what location? Yeah. Yeah. Because this is, this is marketing BS. So, so that makes it easier for China to catch up because. Yeah, everybody has a wall. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's like so, like, there's, there's like no one has Neo-Tone plans to use the 5,000 series ASML machines. Right. And the, you know, those, the cost twice as much and can only do half a radical. And they probably have some improvements in the way, in the works. But it's basically half the chip for twice as much for a gain that is relatively small. So, anyway, the point is that, you know, the China is going to have more power than anyone else. And, you know, probably will have more chips. It's a great insight because I think a lot of people are used to the chip wars where I'm running single threaded code. I need the CPU to double in speed. And I can increase the price. But I need that out in an 18 month cycle time or less. We've been doing that for so long now that nobody can see that it doesn't matter. You can buy Intel or you can build your own fabs. And you can use them for a much longer period of time. Oh, yeah, yeah, absolutely. Much longer. I totally agree. In fact, so like our AI4 chip, which is like relatively primitive at this point, the same fab that makes that. If we apply the AI6 logic design to the fab, which is, it's a sort of 5, sort of, normally 5-nm fab, you know, we can easily get an order of magnitude better output in the same fab. Yeah. Yeah. And the other thing, concurrent with that, is that the volume, if you just 50X the number of chips, can you do something useful with it? You used to not be able to. You'd be like, well, now I've got five CPUs, but I still have the same single threaded code. What am I going to do with five Excel spreadsheets, so side by side? Now, it's like, no, I can translate that into useful intelligence. Yes, exactly. It's not constrained by humans. It's not a human productivity amplifier. It's an independent productivity generator. Dead right. So many people have missed this. The importance of this. And this is where China, you know, China makes far more solar panels than we do. And we're like, well, they'll never get you. They'll never get you. It's a crazy degree. Crazy degree. If they do that in chips, you're like, whoa, but who cares? They're seven nanometer. Oh, no, it's wrong. Yes, correct. Yeah. I mean, based on current trends, China, Wolf, far exceed the rest of the world in AI compute. So that's not good. What happens then? You've got you got XAI and Google and China Inc. Let's call it that for the moment. And you've got massive amount of of of ASI level compute that frankly, the only thing that understands the other AI side level compute is the ASI here. Can they all just play together? Is it Darwinian? It might be some Darwinian element to it. I mean, let's look on the right side. Let's look on the right side of life. Let me bring rock out this intro. Yeah. I don't know. It's just going to be a lot of intelligence. Yes. Like a lot. I mean, now we're now the ratio of human, I mean, human intelligence, all of a sudden, asymptotically, falls to 0% on the planet. Yeah. Pretty much. I mean, several years ago, I said humans are the biological, root loader for digital superintelligence. Yes. We are a transitional species. We're a bootloader. We are a transitional species. So it can suck it cat like evolving in a salt pond, you know. So you need a bootloader. We have a bootloader. But you would never, ever impair your bootloader. Yeah. So, you know, I need it. We've probably been a good bootloader. Yeah. And it's nice to ask the future. Is this where we want to end the pod? I wish people done I want a bootloader, even though. Oh my God. Yeah. Yeah. Boot disks are a far and distant memory. Well, we can make a, always look at the bright side of life. Like clone song. Yeah, we can clone that. I got the closing theme. That'd be awesome. I'll go back to this is the most exciting time ever to be alive. The only time we're exciting today is tomorrow. Yeah. And I mean, it's interesting that we're heading towards a world in which any single person can have their grandest dreams become true. Yeah. That's like Walt Disney word for word together. Yeah. And then we're going to get into a new exhibit. Um, like so. I think you asked like about like sci-fi that's, you know, like is a non-dustopian future. All right. The bank's books are the yes, probably the best. You should you should you should pay a producer to go and make those. Those are the culture books, which is consider flabous, which is gurgic. Just for my wife. I want her because she's like, what the hell are you reading? Well, the way it considerably starts out is. Yeah, I mean, it's it's a little. I mean, the whole full thing is it can get me started being drowned in shit. Yeah. It's a good opening scene. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It can be a little off putting to some people. Yeah. You need to get through the first few hundred. People don't walk out of a movie in the first five minutes. Although they'll give it, you know, get into it. Yeah, it's like player of game. This might be a better book to start off with. Yes, I was that I enjoyed. And humans still exist in this future, which is a good thing. Yes, they do. A lot of humans. Yeah. In that future, there are trillions of humans. Well, we need to get the reproduction rate up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. By the way, you know, my friend Ben Lam's company colossal is making artificial wounds. He's the company bringing back the willy mammoth and bringing back the cyber truth tiger and all of this. What do we get? Oh, can we have? I'd like to have a miniature pet willy mammoth as a pet. Okay. Well, you know, he made the wolfy with the tusks. Wouldn't that be adorable? He made the wolfy mammoth. Yeah, it's just like, it's just like, it's just like, it's just like, sort of, kind of, kindling around the house. You know, what would your optimal size be? He'd be adorable. You know, what they, you know, what they learned how to do is to little tusks and everything else. A miniature willy mammoth would be an epic pet. I mean, look what we do with wolves. You can get a wolf into a little, yeah, he lost toy. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He's got the dire wolf as well. But he made the willy mowder. There's a willy mowster now. Does it have tusks? No tusks. Different gene. He was here. He's a Dallas. He's an epic. He's a Dallas nutfucker. He was visiting him and he said, our, our scientists are going to a tusk conference next week to talk about all of the genes involved in tusk. So they want to have an ass on the mouse? No, no. This is what it is. Probably added to the mouse. That'd be cute. It's like a mouse size. That's just, it's just going to freak people out. The little willy mammoth will sell. Yeah, yeah, that's going to be mouse will not sell. Yeah, that's going to crush the two creepy. He's sort of labored it all was cool when you see the chewling. Yeah. Oh, saber tooth tiger would be good to get the cat. Yeah, that's the cat's eyes. The thing is, does teeth come down to like here? How they actually bite, but did they actually bite with it? I don't think I opened my, not my, you know, the teeth seem to be there. Like unwieldy, you know, they're just dead. For show they look good. Yeah, jewellery. But no dinosaurs. No, legal or not. I wouldn't, I think your Jurassic Box a great idea. I mean, you didn't see the end of the movie. The AIs will help us with that. That makes perfect. Oh, yeah, that really well. I mean, if there was an island with a whole bunch of dinosaurs. 100%. Yes. Yes, I'd pay a lot for that. Yeah, and it's like once in a while somebody gets challenged by a dinosaur. We're like, uh, what's the, you know, so 100 million, I'll sell go. No, where are they missing? Lysine? No, no, they're, the DNA, the oldest DNA that's been recovered is like 1.2 million years. Oh, you can just wing it though. Yeah, just make it look like that. Close to me. One of the actually, that was my proposed express. Remember back in visionaring? What's that? Take the DNA strand and predict what it'll look like. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Yeah, they just make it that way. Yeah. And then just back at the reverse engineer, reverse engineer the dinosaurs. Yeah, exactly. It would be funny if there were two completely different DNA strands. They're like, well, they both look like T-Rex. That's interesting. Is T-Rex real or is that like an assemblage of us? Of course, it's real. That'd be funny. I mean, it's nice to believe it's real, but. Yeah, the first legs were from a completely different. That was the one of eight. It actually had huge front legs. It does have something wrong with the arms. I don't believe, I don't buy it on the arms front. The many arms seem implausible. Well, the DNA will tell us. We'll know in a year. The future is going to be. I'm going to say, I'm going to say, wow, I go. No, no, I meant the amino acid that the dinosaurs were missing. They kept them from reproducing. Was it lysine? I forgot what I remember. The dinosaurs got held back by something like an asteroid, you know, bombardment. Right, right. They were doing great. Yeah, 60 million years. Yeah, they were doing fine. Yeah, we got very lucky. They had a great, much longer than they were. See, there's a good argument. There's no other intelligence out there. There's plenty of dinosaurs in the universe. What were we back then, like a bowl or something? Yeah, we were. You are great. Let's do this. Let's do this. For me, man, I'm with the ancestors. We're very good at hiding. It is amazing. It went from a little, little rat, little mold to us in 60 million years. It doesn't seem that long. That's why no one believed Darwin. Yeah. It doesn't seem implausible. It's a long time. 60 and it turns out it is. You know, you're making robots, but it's interesting. I think it'll be a lot more interesting to like design biological robots. Like a little cat that goes around in peace, standard mover in each lint off the carpet. That's going to be an interesting one. But you have a mechanical, like a optimist light doing that. Yeah, well, he went bankrupt. So after this. I think it's viable. Yeah. Anyway, the room is basically that. It's going to be, but the thing is that you want to robot is general purpose. I can do whatever you want. Yeah. Yeah, they were too early. No vision system, no, no GB 300. How do you build a room by the works? I think the idea of having an optimist vacuum is like the most underused asset. It could, but it can just do anything. It can. Yes, of course. Yeah. So. And you can mask manufacturer at, you know, one, oh, that's yeah. Optimist build me a room. That's what you'll do. You want to say, after this vacuum, the carpet, after this building a room, that that comes. That's how much of a robot. Yeah. I'm going to be a lot of robots. I wish to this once a year. I'm going to check point. I would like that. Checkpoint. Yeah. That's going to be. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. We can. Control it. We can cut. Cut the old. Cut out of us. Are you selling hope? That's a matter of fact. It worked out really well. You pull it over to the. Yeah. I bought this. Yeah. Let's per hope. I'll send you the mug. All right. Minotize hope. One year from today, December 22nd. I'll come in. I'll do a radio. If you're here. If you're here. If you're here. If you're here. If you're not, we'll talk about you. I mean, you're from now, we might have the. You optimise factory with the building. We'll be both. That would be. Awesome. 8 million square feet of robots. It's going to be a giant, giant building. Yeah. And they freaked me out when they're recharging. It was like hanging there. It's like. It's wrong with that thing. Yeah. We're just going to have them like, I think sit down. Yeah. As opposed to look like some sort of. They need like a like a recharging cigar. Recharging cigar. Yeah. Let's mold like. That's happening here with a book. Yeah. Maybe much better. Right now they're just like literally like, is it dead? Yeah. That's a good point. It's a big contribution from this particular mine. It would be. All right. Till next year then. All right. It's a date. It's a date. Awesome, guys. If you made it to the end of this episode, which you obviously did, I consider you a moonshot mate. Every week my moonshot mates and I spend a lot of energy and time to really deliver you the news that matters. If you're subscriber, thank you. If you're not a subscriber yet, please consider subscribing so you get the news as it comes out. I also want to invite you to join me on my weekly newsletter called Metatrends. I have a research team. You may not know this, but we spend the entire week looking at the meta trends that are impacting your family, your company, your industry, your nation. And I put this into a two minute read every week. If you'd like to get access to the Metatrends newsletter every week, go to dmandis.com slash Metatrends. That's dmandis.com slash Metatrends. Thank you again for joining us today. It's a-